

- CloudKit JS
-  CloudKit.QueryResponse 

Class

# CloudKit.QueryResponse

A CloudKit.QueryResponse object encapsulates the results of using a query to fetch records

CloudKit JS 1.0+

``` source
interface CloudKit.QueryResponse
```

## Overview

The performQuery method in the CloudKit.Database class returns a `Promise` object that resolves to a CloudKit.QueryResponse object. You should not create instances of this class directly.

If the criteria matches more records than are returned by the server, the continuationMarker property is non-`null`, or the moreComing property is `true`. To fetch the rest of the matching records, pass the CloudKit.QueryResponse object to another performQuery call until the continuationMarker property is `null` or the moreComing property is `false`.

For an example use of this class, see the performQuery method in CloudKit.Database.

## Topics

### Accessing Request Properties

zoneID

A CloudKit.ZoneID dictionary that identifies a record zone in the database.

resultsLimit

The maximum number of records to fetch.

continuationMarker

Marks the location of the last batch of results.

desiredKeys

An array of strings containing record field names that limits the amount of data returned in this operation.

zoneWide

A Boolean value that determines whether all zones should be searched.

### Accessing Response Properties

moreComing

A Boolean value that indicates whether there are more records to fetch.

query

A CloudKit.Query dictionary containing the criteria for matching records in the database.

### Identifying the Class

isQueryResponse

A Boolean value indicating whether this object is an instance of the CloudKit.QueryResponse class.

### Logging

toString

Returns a string representation of this CloudKit.QueryResponse object.

## Relationships

### Inherited By

- CloudKit.RecordsResponse

## See Also

### Classes

CloudKit

Use the `CloudKit` namespace to configure CloudKit JS, and to access app containers and global constants.

CloudKit.CKError

A CloudKit.CKError object encapsulates an error that may occur when you use CloudKit JS. This includes CloudKit server errors and local errors.

CloudKit.Container

A CloudKit.Container object provides access to an app container, and through the app container, access to its databases. It also contains methods for authenticating and fetching users.

CloudKit.Database

A CloudKit.Database object represents a public or private database in an app container.

CloudKit.DatabaseChangesResponse

A CloudKit.DatabaseChangesResponse object encapsulates the results of fetching changed record zones in a database.

CloudKit.Notification

A CloudKit.Notification object represents a push notification that was sent to your app. Notifications are triggered by subscriptions that you save to the database. To subscribe to record changes and handle push notifications, see the `saveSubscription` method in CloudKit.Database.

CloudKit.QueryNotification

A CloudKit.QueryNotification object represents a push notification that was generated by a subscription object. A query notification is triggered by subscriptions where the `subscriptionType` key is `query`. Use a CloudKit.QueryNotification object to get information about the record that changed. To create query subscriptions and handle push notifications, see the saveSubscriptions method in CloudKit.Database.

CloudKit.RecordInfosResponse

A CloudKit.RecordInfosResponse object encapsulates the results of fetching information about records in general and shared records in particular.

CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder

A CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder object encapsulates the results of changes to multiple records in a single database operation.

CloudKit.RecordsResponse

A CloudKit.RecordsResponse object encapsulates the results of fetching records.

CloudKit.RecordZoneChangesResponse

The CloudKit.RecordZoneChangesResponse object encapsulates the results of fetching changes to one or more record zones.

CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification

A CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification object represents a push notification that was caused by changes to the contents of a record zone. A zone notification is triggered by subscriptions where the `subscriptionType` key is `zone`. Use a CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification object to get information about the record that changed. To create zone subscriptions and handle push notifications, see the saveSubscriptions method in CloudKit.Database.

CloudKit.RecordZonesResponse

A CloudKit.RecordZonesResponse object encapsulates the results of database operations on a record zone.

CloudKit.Response

The CloudKit.Response class is an abstract superclass for subclasses that encapsulate the response from server requests. Don’t create instances of this class. Instances of subclasses are returned by methods in the CloudKit.Container and CloudKit.Database classes. Most of these methods return a `Promise` object that resolves to a subclass of CloudKit.Response if the operation is successful.

CloudKit.ShareRecordType

Display information about the record type of a shared record.

