

- CloudKit JS
-  CloudKit.CKError 

Class

# CloudKit.CKError

A CloudKit.CKError object encapsulates an error that may occur when you use CloudKit JS. This includes CloudKit server errors and local errors.

CloudKit JS 1.0+

``` source
interface CloudKit.CKError
```

## Topics

### Handling Errors

isError

A Boolean value indicating whether this is an error object.

isCKError

A Boolean value indicating whether this is a CloudKit error object.

ckErrorCode

The error code for this error.

isServerError

A Boolean value indicating whether a server error occurred.

serverErrorCode

The error code generated by the server.

reason

A description of the error that occurred.

retryAfter

The suggested time to wait before trying this operation again.

uuid

A unique identifier for this error.

redirectURL

A redirect URL for the user to securely sign in with the user’s Apple ID.

### Identifying the Operation

recordName

The name of the record that the operation failed on.

subscriptionID

A string that is a unique identifier for the subscription where the error occurred.

zoneID

The record zone in the database where the error occurred.

### Constants

Errors

The errors that may occur when posting requests.

## See Also

### Classes

CloudKit

Use the `CloudKit` namespace to configure CloudKit JS, and to access app containers and global constants.

CloudKit.Container

A CloudKit.Container object provides access to an app container, and through the app container, access to its databases. It also contains methods for authenticating and fetching users.

CloudKit.Database

A CloudKit.Database object represents a public or private database in an app container.

CloudKit.DatabaseChangesResponse

A CloudKit.DatabaseChangesResponse object encapsulates the results of fetching changed record zones in a database.

CloudKit.Notification

A CloudKit.Notification object represents a push notification that was sent to your app. Notifications are triggered by subscriptions that you save to the database. To subscribe to record changes and handle push notifications, see the `saveSubscription` method in CloudKit.Database.

CloudKit.QueryNotification

A CloudKit.QueryNotification object represents a push notification that was generated by a subscription object. A query notification is triggered by subscriptions where the `subscriptionType` key is `query`. Use a CloudKit.QueryNotification object to get information about the record that changed. To create query subscriptions and handle push notifications, see the saveSubscriptions method in CloudKit.Database.

CloudKit.QueryResponse

A CloudKit.QueryResponse object encapsulates the results of using a query to fetch records

CloudKit.RecordInfosResponse

A CloudKit.RecordInfosResponse object encapsulates the results of fetching information about records in general and shared records in particular.

CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder

A CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder object encapsulates the results of changes to multiple records in a single database operation.

CloudKit.RecordsResponse

A CloudKit.RecordsResponse object encapsulates the results of fetching records.

CloudKit.RecordZoneChangesResponse

The CloudKit.RecordZoneChangesResponse object encapsulates the results of fetching changes to one or more record zones.

CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification

A CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification object represents a push notification that was caused by changes to the contents of a record zone. A zone notification is triggered by subscriptions where the `subscriptionType` key is `zone`. Use a CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification object to get information about the record that changed. To create zone subscriptions and handle push notifications, see the saveSubscriptions method in CloudKit.Database.

CloudKit.RecordZonesResponse

A CloudKit.RecordZonesResponse object encapsulates the results of database operations on a record zone.

CloudKit.Response

The CloudKit.Response class is an abstract superclass for subclasses that encapsulate the response from server requests. Don’t create instances of this class. Instances of subclasses are returned by methods in the CloudKit.Container and CloudKit.Database classes. Most of these methods return a `Promise` object that resolves to a subclass of CloudKit.Response if the operation is successful.

CloudKit.ShareRecordType

Display information about the record type of a shared record.

