

- CloudKit JS
-  CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder 

Class

# CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder

A CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder object encapsulates the results of changes to multiple records in a single database operation.

CloudKit JS 1.0+

``` source
interface CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder
```

## Overview

It is more efficient to use this class to batch multiple record changes into a single operation than to use the individual record change methods in the CloudKit.Database class. Using this class is especially important if the record types contain `Reference` fields. CloudKit ensures that in a graph of related records, target records are saved before source records.

You should not create instances of this class directly. Instead use the newRecordsBatch method in the CloudKit.Database class to get a CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder object. Then use the create, replace, and delete methods in this class to build the batch operation. Use the commit method to execute the batch operation.

For convenience, most methods in this class that add operations return the CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder object so that you can chain method calls together; for example:

```
myDatabase.newRecordsBatch()
    .create(someRecord)
    .update(someOtherRecord)
    .delete(aThirdRecord)
    .commit()
```

For similar web service operations, read Modifying Records (records/modify) in CloudKit Web Services Reference.

## Topics

### Creating and Updating Records

create

Creates one or more records.

createOrUpdate

Creates or updates one or more records depending on the information provided.

update

Updates one or more existing records.

forceUpdate

Updates one or more existing records regardless of conflicts.

### Replacing Records

replace

Replaces one or more records with the specified records.

forceReplace

Replaces one or more records with the specified records regardless of conflicts.

### Deleting Records

delete

Deletes one or more records.

forceDelete

Deletes one or more records regardless of conflicts.

### Executing Operations

commit

Executes the operations on the database that created this batch builder object.

## See Also

### Classes

CloudKit

Use the `CloudKit` namespace to configure CloudKit JS, and to access app containers and global constants.

CloudKit.CKError

A CloudKit.CKError object encapsulates an error that may occur when you use CloudKit JS. This includes CloudKit server errors and local errors.

CloudKit.Container

A CloudKit.Container object provides access to an app container, and through the app container, access to its databases. It also contains methods for authenticating and fetching users.

CloudKit.Database

A CloudKit.Database object represents a public or private database in an app container.

CloudKit.DatabaseChangesResponse

A CloudKit.DatabaseChangesResponse object encapsulates the results of fetching changed record zones in a database.

CloudKit.Notification

A CloudKit.Notification object represents a push notification that was sent to your app. Notifications are triggered by subscriptions that you save to the database. To subscribe to record changes and handle push notifications, see the `saveSubscription` method in CloudKit.Database.

CloudKit.QueryNotification

A CloudKit.QueryNotification object represents a push notification that was generated by a subscription object. A query notification is triggered by subscriptions where the `subscriptionType` key is `query`. Use a CloudKit.QueryNotification object to get information about the record that changed. To create query subscriptions and handle push notifications, see the saveSubscriptions method in CloudKit.Database.

CloudKit.QueryResponse

A CloudKit.QueryResponse object encapsulates the results of using a query to fetch records

CloudKit.RecordInfosResponse

A CloudKit.RecordInfosResponse object encapsulates the results of fetching information about records in general and shared records in particular.

CloudKit.RecordsResponse

A CloudKit.RecordsResponse object encapsulates the results of fetching records.

CloudKit.RecordZoneChangesResponse

The CloudKit.RecordZoneChangesResponse object encapsulates the results of fetching changes to one or more record zones.

CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification

A CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification object represents a push notification that was caused by changes to the contents of a record zone. A zone notification is triggered by subscriptions where the `subscriptionType` key is `zone`. Use a CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification object to get information about the record that changed. To create zone subscriptions and handle push notifications, see the saveSubscriptions method in CloudKit.Database.

CloudKit.RecordZonesResponse

A CloudKit.RecordZonesResponse object encapsulates the results of database operations on a record zone.

CloudKit.Response

The CloudKit.Response class is an abstract superclass for subclasses that encapsulate the response from server requests. Don’t create instances of this class. Instances of subclasses are returned by methods in the CloudKit.Container and CloudKit.Database classes. Most of these methods return a `Promise` object that resolves to a subclass of CloudKit.Response if the operation is successful.

CloudKit.ShareRecordType

Display information about the record type of a shared record.

