

- CloudKit JS
-  CloudKit.Notification 

Class

# CloudKit.Notification

A CloudKit.Notification object represents a push notification that was sent to your app. Notifications are triggered by subscriptions that you save to the database. To subscribe to record changes and handle push notifications, see the `saveSubscription` method in CloudKit.Database.

CloudKit JS 1.0+

``` source
interface CloudKit.Notification
```

## Overview

This class is similar to the CKNotification class in the CloudKit framework.

## Topics

### Getting Identifiers

containerIdentifier

The identifier of the container that generated this notification.

notificationID

A unique identifier for this notification.

subscriptionID

The identifier for the associated subscription.

zoneID

The identifier of the zone that this notification belongs to.

### Getting the Notification Type

notificationType

The type of notification.

isQueryNotification

A Boolean value indicating whether this push notification is a query notification.

isRecordZoneNotification

A Boolean value indicating whether this notification is a push notification that was sent because of changes to a record zone.

### Presenting Notifications

alertActionLocalizationKey

A key to get a localized right button title that appears in the alert dialog.

alertBody

The text of the alert message.

alertLaunchImage

The filename of an image file in the app bundle used as a launch image.

alertLocalizationArgs

An array of strings that appear as variables if alertLocalizationKey is a format specifier.

alertLocalizationKey

A key to a localized alert message.

badge

The badge number to display.

category

Name of the action group corresponding to this notification.

soundName

The name of a sound file in the app bundle to play as an alert.

### Constants

Notification Types

Constants indicating the type of event that generated the push notification.

### Variables

QUERY_NOTIFICATION_REASON_RECORD_CREATED

A record matching the subscription’s predicate was created.

QUERY_NOTIFICATION_REASON_RECORD_DELETED

A record matching the subscription’s predicate was deleted.

QUERY_NOTIFICATION_REASON_RECORD_UPDATED

A record matching the subscription’s predicate was updated.

## Relationships

### Inherits From

- CloudKit.QueryNotification
- CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification

## See Also

### Classes

CloudKit

Use the `CloudKit` namespace to configure CloudKit JS, and to access app containers and global constants.

CloudKit.CKError

A CloudKit.CKError object encapsulates an error that may occur when you use CloudKit JS. This includes CloudKit server errors and local errors.

CloudKit.Container

A CloudKit.Container object provides access to an app container, and through the app container, access to its databases. It also contains methods for authenticating and fetching users.

CloudKit.Database

A CloudKit.Database object represents a public or private database in an app container.

CloudKit.DatabaseChangesResponse

A CloudKit.DatabaseChangesResponse object encapsulates the results of fetching changed record zones in a database.

CloudKit.QueryNotification

A CloudKit.QueryNotification object represents a push notification that was generated by a subscription object. A query notification is triggered by subscriptions where the `subscriptionType` key is `query`. Use a CloudKit.QueryNotification object to get information about the record that changed. To create query subscriptions and handle push notifications, see the saveSubscriptions method in CloudKit.Database.

CloudKit.QueryResponse

A CloudKit.QueryResponse object encapsulates the results of using a query to fetch records

CloudKit.RecordInfosResponse

A CloudKit.RecordInfosResponse object encapsulates the results of fetching information about records in general and shared records in particular.

CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder

A CloudKit.RecordsBatchBuilder object encapsulates the results of changes to multiple records in a single database operation.

CloudKit.RecordsResponse

A CloudKit.RecordsResponse object encapsulates the results of fetching records.

CloudKit.RecordZoneChangesResponse

The CloudKit.RecordZoneChangesResponse object encapsulates the results of fetching changes to one or more record zones.

CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification

A CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification object represents a push notification that was caused by changes to the contents of a record zone. A zone notification is triggered by subscriptions where the `subscriptionType` key is `zone`. Use a CloudKit.RecordZoneNotification object to get information about the record that changed. To create zone subscriptions and handle push notifications, see the saveSubscriptions method in CloudKit.Database.

CloudKit.RecordZonesResponse

A CloudKit.RecordZonesResponse object encapsulates the results of database operations on a record zone.

CloudKit.Response

The CloudKit.Response class is an abstract superclass for subclasses that encapsulate the response from server requests. Don’t create instances of this class. Instances of subclasses are returned by methods in the CloudKit.Container and CloudKit.Database classes. Most of these methods return a `Promise` object that resolves to a subclass of CloudKit.Response if the operation is successful.

CloudKit.ShareRecordType

Display information about the record type of a shared record.

