

- TV Services
-  TVUserIdentifier Deprecated

Type Alias

# TVUserIdentifier

A unique string for differentiating between accounts on Apple TV.

tvOS 13.0–16.0Deprecated

``` source
typealias TVUserIdentifier = String
```

Deprecated

Manually mapping profiles is deprecated. To opt-in to the system’s automatic user-data management, add the User Management Entitlement to your target, with a value of `runs-as-current-user-with-user-independent-keychain`. For more information, see Mapping Apple TV users to app profiles.

## Discussion

This type stores an ASCII string containing no more than 64 characters. The string isn’t the same as the user’s Apple ID, and you should never display it in your app’s interface. It’s a random string generated by the TVUserManager object and shared among the Apple TV devices on the user’s HomeKit network. You use it to differentiate between different accounts on the same Apple TV.

## See Also

### Deprecated symbols

var currentUserIdentifier: TVUserIdentifier?

A unique identifier representing the currently active Apple TV user.

Deprecated

class let currentUserIdentifierDidChangeNotification: NSNotification.Name

The notification the system sends when a different user becomes current.

Deprecated

func presentProfilePreferencePanel(currentSettings: [TVUserIdentifier : TVAppProfileDescriptor], availableProfiles: [TVAppProfileDescriptor], completion: ([TVUserIdentifier : TVAppProfileDescriptor]) -> Void)

Presents a user-to-profile configuration panel, which lets the user specify their preferred profile.

Deprecated

func shouldStorePreferenceForCurrentUser(to: TVAppProfileDescriptor, completion: (Bool) -> Void)

Prompts the user to save the specified profile as the preferred profile for the current user.

Deprecated

class TVAppProfileDescriptor

A model object that you use to represent an app-specific profile.

Deprecated

var userIdentifiersForCurrentProfile: [TVUserIdentifier]

An array of system user identifiers that you associated with the current app-specific profile.

Deprecated

