

- AppKit
- Mouse, Keyboard, and Trackpad
- NSEvent
-  Function-Key Unicode Values 

API Collection

# Function-Key Unicode Values

Constants for reserved keyboard function keys that correspond to unicode characters.

## Overview

These constants correspond to unicode characters in the range (0xF700–0xF8FF) and are values you can use with the characters and charactersIgnoringModifiers properties of the event. You can also use them in some parameters in the keyEvent(with:location:modifierFlags:timestamp:windowNumber:context:characters:charactersIgnoringModifiers:isARepeat:keyCode:) method of the event.

Note that the system handles some function keys at a lower level and your app never sees them. Examples include the Volume Up key, Volume Down key, Volume Mute key, Eject key, and Function key found on many Macs.

## Topics

### Getting Common Control Keys

var NSDeleteFunctionKey: Int

The forward delete key.

### Getting the Navigation-Related Keys

var NSUpArrowFunctionKey: Int

The up arrow key.

var NSDownArrowFunctionKey: Int

The down arrow key.

var NSLeftArrowFunctionKey: Int

The left arrow key.

var NSRightArrowFunctionKey: Int

The right arrow key.

var NSPageUpFunctionKey: Int

The page up key.

var NSPageDownFunctionKey: Int

The page down key.

var NSHomeFunctionKey: Int

The home key.

var NSEndFunctionKey: Int

The end key.

var NSPrevFunctionKey: Int

Previous key.

var NSNextFunctionKey: Int

The next key.

### Getting Special Behavior Keys

var NSBeginFunctionKey: Int

The begin key.

var NSBreakFunctionKey: Int

The break key.

var NSClearDisplayFunctionKey: Int

The clear display key.

var NSClearLineFunctionKey: Int

The clear or num lock key.

var NSDeleteCharFunctionKey: Int

The delete character key.

var NSDeleteLineFunctionKey: Int

The delete line key.

var NSExecuteFunctionKey: Int

The execute key.

var NSFindFunctionKey: Int

The find key.

var NSHelpFunctionKey: Int

The help key.

var NSInsertFunctionKey: Int

The insert key.

var NSInsertCharFunctionKey: Int

The insert character key.

var NSInsertLineFunctionKey: Int

The insert line key.

var NSMenuFunctionKey: Int

The menu key.

var NSModeSwitchFunctionKey: Int

The mode switch key.

var NSPauseFunctionKey: Int

The pause key.

var NSPrintFunctionKey: Int

The print key.

var NSPrintScreenFunctionKey: Int

The print screen key.

var NSRedoFunctionKey: Int

The redo key.

var NSResetFunctionKey: Int

The reset key.

var NSScrollLockFunctionKey: Int

The scroll lock key.

var NSSelectFunctionKey: Int

The select key.

var NSStopFunctionKey: Int

The stop key.

var NSSysReqFunctionKey: Int

The system request key.

var NSSystemFunctionKey: Int

The system key.

var NSUndoFunctionKey: Int

The undo key.

var NSUserFunctionKey: Int

The user key.

### Getting the Function Keys

var NSF1FunctionKey: Int

The F1 key.

var NSF2FunctionKey: Int

The F2 key.

var NSF3FunctionKey: Int

The F3 key.

var NSF4FunctionKey: Int

The F4 key.

var NSF5FunctionKey: Int

The F5 key.

var NSF6FunctionKey: Int

The F6 key.

var NSF7FunctionKey: Int

The F7 key.

var NSF8FunctionKey: Int

The F8 key.

var NSF9FunctionKey: Int

The F9 key.

var NSF10FunctionKey: Int

The F10 key.

var NSF11FunctionKey: Int

The F11 key.

var NSF12FunctionKey: Int

The F12 key.

var NSF13FunctionKey: Int

The F13 key.

var NSF14FunctionKey: Int

The F14 key.

var NSF15FunctionKey: Int

The F15 key.

var NSF16FunctionKey: Int

The F16 key.

var NSF17FunctionKey: Int

The F17 key.

var NSF18FunctionKey: Int

The F18 key.

var NSF19FunctionKey: Int

The F19 key.

var NSF20FunctionKey: Int

The F20 key.

var NSF21FunctionKey: Int

The F21 key.

var NSF22FunctionKey: Int

The F22 key.

var NSF23FunctionKey: Int

The F23 key.

var NSF24FunctionKey: Int

The F24 key.

var NSF25FunctionKey: Int

The F25 key.

var NSF26FunctionKey: Int

The F26 key.

var NSF27FunctionKey: Int

The F27 key.

var NSF28FunctionKey: Int

The F28 key.

var NSF29FunctionKey: Int

The F29 key.

var NSF30FunctionKey: Int

The F30 key.

var NSF31FunctionKey: Int

The F31 key.

var NSF32FunctionKey: Int

The F32 key.

var NSF33FunctionKey: Int

The F33 key.

var NSF34FunctionKey: Int

The F34 key.

var NSF35FunctionKey: Int

The F35 key.

## See Also

### Getting key event information

var characters: String?

The characters associated with a key-up or key-down event.

var charactersIgnoringModifiers: String?

The characters generated by a key event as if no modifier key (except for Shift) applies.

var keyCode: UInt16

The virtual code for the key associated with the event.

func characters(byApplyingModifiers: NSEvent.ModifierFlags) -> String?

Returns the new characters that result if you apply the specified modifier keys to the event.

class var keyRepeatDelay: TimeInterval

The number of seconds someone must hold down a key before the first key repeat event occurs.

class var keyRepeatInterval: TimeInterval

The number of seconds someone must hold down a key to generate key-repeat events after the initial delay.

var specialKey: NSEvent.SpecialKey?

The code associated with a function key or other special key.

struct SpecialKey

Constants for reserved function keys on the keyboard.

var isARepeat: Bool

A Boolean value that indicates whether the key event is a repeat.

