

- AppKit
- NSEvent
-  characters 

Instance Property

# characters

The characters associated with a key-up or key-down event.

macOS

``` source
var characters: String? { get }
```

## Discussion

These characters are derived from a keyboard mapping that associates various key combinations with Unicode characters. This property is only valid for key-up and key-down events. It raises an `NSInternalInconsistencyException` if accessed on any other kind of event object.

This property is set to an empty string for dead keys, such as Option-e. However, for a key combination such as Option-Shift-e this property is set to the standard accent (“´”).

For a list of constants corresponding to commonly-used Unicode characters, see NSText.

## See Also

### Related Documentation

class func keyEvent(with: NSEvent.EventType, location: NSPoint, modifierFlags: NSEvent.ModifierFlags, timestamp: TimeInterval, windowNumber: Int, context: NSGraphicsContext?, characters: String, charactersIgnoringModifiers: String, isARepeat: Bool, keyCode: UInt16) -> NSEvent?

Creates and returns a new event object that describes a key event.

### Getting key event information

var charactersIgnoringModifiers: String?

The characters generated by a key event as if no modifier key (except for Shift) applies.

var keyCode: UInt16

The virtual code for the key associated with the event.

func characters(byApplyingModifiers: NSEvent.ModifierFlags) -> String?

Returns the new characters that result if you apply the specified modifier keys to the event.

class var keyRepeatDelay: TimeInterval

The number of seconds someone must hold down a key before the first key repeat event occurs.

class var keyRepeatInterval: TimeInterval

The number of seconds someone must hold down a key to generate key-repeat events after the initial delay.

var specialKey: NSEvent.SpecialKey?

The code associated with a function key or other special key.

Function-Key Unicode Values

Constants for reserved keyboard function keys that correspond to unicode characters.

struct SpecialKey

Constants for reserved function keys on the keyboard.

var isARepeat: Bool

A Boolean value that indicates whether the key event is a repeat.

