

- AppKit
- NSEvent
-  characters(byApplyingModifiers:) 

Instance Method

# characters(byApplyingModifiers:)

Returns the new characters that result if you apply the specified modifier keys to the event.

macOS 10.15+

``` source
func characters(byApplyingModifiers modifiers: NSEvent.ModifierFlags) -> String?
```

## Parameters 

`modifiers`  

The modifier keys you want to apply to the event’s characters. These modifiers completely replace the existing modifiers in the event.

## Return Value

The characters that result from the application of the specified modifier keys. If the event contains invalid data, this method returns `nil`.

## Discussion

Call this method to determine what characters occur if you apply the specified modifier keys to this event. This method doesn’t modify the event itself, but returns a translation of the event’s data that replaces the existing modifier keys with the new ones you specify. Cal this method only for an event of type NSEvent.EventType.keyUp or NSEvent.EventType.keyDown.

## See Also

### Getting key event information

var characters: String?

The characters associated with a key-up or key-down event.

var charactersIgnoringModifiers: String?

The characters generated by a key event as if no modifier key (except for Shift) applies.

var keyCode: UInt16

The virtual code for the key associated with the event.

class var keyRepeatDelay: TimeInterval

The number of seconds someone must hold down a key before the first key repeat event occurs.

class var keyRepeatInterval: TimeInterval

The number of seconds someone must hold down a key to generate key-repeat events after the initial delay.

var specialKey: NSEvent.SpecialKey?

The code associated with a function key or other special key.

Function-Key Unicode Values

Constants for reserved keyboard function keys that correspond to unicode characters.

struct SpecialKey

Constants for reserved function keys on the keyboard.

var isARepeat: Bool

A Boolean value that indicates whether the key event is a repeat.

