

- AppKit
-  App and Environment 

API Collection

# App and Environment

Learn about the objects that you use to interact with the system.

## Topics

### Life Cycle

class NSApplication

An object that manages an app’s main event loop and resources used by all of that app’s objects.

class NSRunningApplication

An object that can manipulate and provide information for a single instance of an app.

protocol NSApplicationDelegate

A set of methods that manage your app’s life cycle and its interaction with common system services.

func NSApplicationMain(Int32, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;CChar>?>) -> Int32

Called by the main function to create and run the application.

### Environment

class NSWorkspace

A workspace that can launch other apps and perform a variety of file-handling services.

class OpenConfiguration

The configuration options for opening URLs or launching apps.

struct NSAppKitVersion

Constants for determining which version of AppKit is available.

LSMinimumSystemVersion

The minimum version of the operating system required for the app to run in macOS.

### Handoff

class NSUserActivity

A representation of the state of your app at a moment in time.

protocol NSUserActivityRestoring

A protocol that marks classes to restore the state of your app to continue a user activity.

### App Services

class NSSharingService

An object that facilitates the sharing of content with social media services, or with apps like Mail or Safari.

class NSSharingServicePicker

A list of sharing services that the user can choose from.

protocol NSPreviewRepresentableActivityItem

An interface you adopt in custom objects that you want to share using the macOS share sheet.

class NSSharingServicePickerToolbarItem

A toolbar item that displays the macOS share sheet.

protocol NSServicesMenuRequestor

A set of methods that support interaction with items users can share through a sharing service.

protocol NSCloudSharingServiceDelegate

A set of methods for responding to the life cycle events of the cloud-sharing service.

Services Functions

Configure the contents of your app’s Services menu.

### App Help

class NSHelpManager

An object for displaying online help for an app.

protocol NSUserInterfaceItemSearching

A set of methods an app can implement to provide Spotlight for Help for its own custom help data.

### Errors

AppKit Errors

These constants represent errors generated by AppKit.

## See Also

### App Structure

Documents, Data, and Pasteboard

Organize your app’s data and preferences, and share that data on the pasteboard or in iCloud.

Cocoa Bindings

Automatically synchronize your data model with your app’s interface using Cocoa Bindings.

Resource Management

Manage the storyboards and nib files containing your app’s user interface, and learn how to load data that is stored in resource files.

App Extensions

Extend your app’s basic functionality to other parts of the system.

