

- AppKit
- NSEvent
-  charactersIgnoringModifiers 

Instance Property

# charactersIgnoringModifiers

The characters generated by a key event as if no modifier key (except for Shift) applies.

macOS

``` source
var charactersIgnoringModifiers: String? { get }
```

## Discussion

Raises an `NSInternalInconsistencyException` if accessed on a non-key event.

This property is set to the non-modifier key character pressed for dead keys, such as Option-e. For example, Option-e (no shift key) returns an “e” for this method, whereas the characters property returns an empty string.

This property is useful for determining “basic” key values in a hardware-independent manner, enabling such features as keyboard equivalents defined in terms of modifier keys plus character keys. For example, to determine if the user typed Alt-S, you don’t have to know whether Alt-S generates a German double ess, an integral sign, or a section symbol. You simply examine the string contained by this property along with the event’s modifier flags, checking for “s” and `NSAlternateKeyMask`.

For a list of constants corresponding to commonly-used Unicode characters, see NSText.

## See Also

### Related Documentation

class func keyEvent(with: NSEvent.EventType, location: NSPoint, modifierFlags: NSEvent.ModifierFlags, timestamp: TimeInterval, windowNumber: Int, context: NSGraphicsContext?, characters: String, charactersIgnoringModifiers: String, isARepeat: Bool, keyCode: UInt16) -> NSEvent?

Creates and returns a new event object that describes a key event.

var modifierFlags: NSEvent.ModifierFlags

An integer bit field that indicates the pressed modifier keys.

### Getting key event information

var characters: String?

The characters associated with a key-up or key-down event.

var keyCode: UInt16

The virtual code for the key associated with the event.

func characters(byApplyingModifiers: NSEvent.ModifierFlags) -> String?

Returns the new characters that result if you apply the specified modifier keys to the event.

class var keyRepeatDelay: TimeInterval

The number of seconds someone must hold down a key before the first key repeat event occurs.

class var keyRepeatInterval: TimeInterval

The number of seconds someone must hold down a key to generate key-repeat events after the initial delay.

var specialKey: NSEvent.SpecialKey?

The code associated with a function key or other special key.

Function-Key Unicode Values

Constants for reserved keyboard function keys that correspond to unicode characters.

struct SpecialKey

Constants for reserved function keys on the keyboard.

var isARepeat: Bool

A Boolean value that indicates whether the key event is a repeat.

