

- AppKit
- NSEvent
-  absoluteZ 

Instance Property

# absoluteZ

The absolute z coordinate of pointing device on its tablet at full tablet resolution.

macOS

``` source
var absoluteZ: Int { get }
```

## Discussion

For the coordinate to be valid, this event must be generated by a tablet pointing device (otherwise the property is set to `0`). The z coordinate does not represent pressure. It registers the depth coordinate returned by some tablet devices with wheels; if the device is something other than these, `0` is returned. This method is valid only for mouse events with a subtype of `NSTabletPointEventSubtype` and for events of type `NSTabletPoint`.

## See Also

### Getting tablet pointing information

var absoluteX: Int

The absolute x coordinate of a pointing device on its tablet at full tablet resolution.

var absoluteY: Int

The absolute y coordinate of a pointing device on its tablet at full tablet resolution.

var buttonMask: NSEvent.ButtonMask

A bit mask identifying the buttons pressed for a tablet event.

struct ButtonMask

Constants you use to identify the activated tablet buttons in an event.

var rotation: Float

The rotation in degrees of the tablet pointing device associated with this event.

var tangentialPressure: Float

The tangential pressure on the device that generated this event.

var tilt: NSPoint

The scaled tilt values of the pointing device that generated this event.

var vendorDefined: Any

An array of three vendor-defined number objects associated with a pointing-type event.

