

- AppKit
- NSTypesetter
-  getGlyphs(in:glyphs:characterIndexes:glyphInscriptions:elasticBits:bidiLevels:) Deprecated

Instance Method

# getGlyphs(in:glyphs:characterIndexes:glyphInscriptions:elasticBits:bidiLevels:)

Extracts the information needed to lay out the provided glyphs from the provided range.

macOS 10.3–10.13Deprecated

``` source
func getGlyphs(
    in glyphsRange: NSRange,
    glyphs glyphBuffer: UnsafeMutablePointer!,
    characterIndexes charIndexBuffer: UnsafeMutablePointer!,
    glyphInscriptions inscribeBuffer: UnsafeMutablePointer!,
    elasticBits elasticBuffer: UnsafeMutablePointer!,
    bidiLevels bidiLevelBuffer: UnsafeMutablePointer!
) -> Int
```

## Parameters 

`glyphsRange`  

The range of glyphs.

`glyphBuffer`  

The glyphs to lay out.

`charIndexBuffer`  

The original characters for the glyphs. Note that a glyph at index 1 is not necessarily mapped to the character at index 1, because a glyph may be for a ligature or accent.

`inscribeBuffer`  

The inscription attributes for each glyph, which are used to layout characters that are combined together.

`elasticBuffer`  

Contains a Boolean value indicating whether a glyph is elastic for each glyph. An elastic glyph can be made longer at the end of a line or when needed for justification.

`bidiLevelBuffer`  

Contains the bidirectional level value generated by NSGlyphGenerator, in case a subclass chooses to use this value.

## Discussion

A subclass can override this method to interact with custom glyph storage.

## See Also

### Deprecated

func actionForControlCharacter(at: Int) -> NSTypesetterControlCharacterAction

Returns the action associated with a control character.

func deleteGlyphs(in: NSRange)

Deletes the specified glyphs from the glyph cache maintained by the layout manager.

Deprecated

func substituteGlyphs(in: NSRange, withGlyphs: UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;NSGlyph>!)

Replaces the specified glyphs with specified replacement glyphs.

Deprecated

func insertGlyph(NSGlyph, atGlyphIndex: Int, characterIndex: Int)

Enables the typesetter to insert a new glyph into the stream.

Deprecated

struct NSTypesetterControlCharacterAction

The following constants are possible values returned by the actionForControlCharacter(at:) method to determine the action associated with a control character.

