

- AppKit
- NSEvent
-  keyCode 

Instance Property

# keyCode

The virtual code for the key associated with the event.

macOS

``` source
var keyCode: UInt16 { get }
```

## Discussion

Raises an `NSInternalInconsistencyException` if sent to a non-key event.

The property’s value is hardware-independent. The value returned is the same as the value returned in the `kEventParamKeyCode` when using Carbon Events.

## See Also

### Related Documentation

class func keyEvent(with: NSEvent.EventType, location: NSPoint, modifierFlags: NSEvent.ModifierFlags, timestamp: TimeInterval, windowNumber: Int, context: NSGraphicsContext?, characters: String, charactersIgnoringModifiers: String, isARepeat: Bool, keyCode: UInt16) -> NSEvent?

Creates and returns a new event object that describes a key event.

### Getting key event information

var characters: String?

The characters associated with a key-up or key-down event.

var charactersIgnoringModifiers: String?

The characters generated by a key event as if no modifier key (except for Shift) applies.

func characters(byApplyingModifiers: NSEvent.ModifierFlags) -> String?

Returns the new characters that result if you apply the specified modifier keys to the event.

class var keyRepeatDelay: TimeInterval

The number of seconds someone must hold down a key before the first key repeat event occurs.

class var keyRepeatInterval: TimeInterval

The number of seconds someone must hold down a key to generate key-repeat events after the initial delay.

var specialKey: NSEvent.SpecialKey?

The code associated with a function key or other special key.

Function-Key Unicode Values

Constants for reserved keyboard function keys that correspond to unicode characters.

struct SpecialKey

Constants for reserved function keys on the keyboard.

var isARepeat: Bool

A Boolean value that indicates whether the key event is a repeat.

