

- DeviceActivity
- DeviceActivityReport
-  keyframeAnimator(initialValue:trigger:content:keyframes:) 

Instance Method

# keyframeAnimator(initialValue:trigger:content:keyframes:)

Plays the given keyframes when the given trigger value changes, updating the view using the modifiers you apply in `body`.

DeviceActivitySwiftUIiOS 17.0+iPadOS 17.0+Mac Catalyst 17.0+macOS 14.0+tvOS 17.0+watchOS 10.0+

``` source
nonisolated
func keyframeAnimator(
    initialValue: Value,
    trigger: some Equatable,
    @ViewBuilder content: @escaping (PlaceholderContentView, Value) -> some View,
    @KeyframesBuilder keyframes: @escaping (Value) -> some Keyframes
) -> some View
```

## Parameters 

`initialValue`  

The initial value that the keyframes will animate from.

`trigger`  

A value to observe for changes.

`content`  

A view builder closure that takes two parameters. The first parameter is a proxy value representing the modified view. The second parameter is the interpolated value generated by the keyframes.

`keyframes`  

Keyframes defining how the value changes over time. The current value of the animator is the single argument, which is equal to `initialValue` when the view first appears, then is equal to the end value of the previous keyframe animation on subsequent calls.

## Discussion

Note that the `content` closure will be updated on every frame while animating, so avoid performing any expensive operations directly within `content`.

If the trigger value changes while animating, the `keyframes` closure will be called with the current interpolated value, and the keyframes that you return define a new animation that replaces the old one. The previous velocity will be preserved, so cubic or spring keyframes will maintain continuity from the previous animation if they do not specify a custom initial velocity.

When a keyframe animation finishes, the animator will remain at the end value, which becomes the initial value for the next animation.

