

- Core Graphics
-  CGDisplayMode 

Class

# CGDisplayMode

A reference to a display mode object.

Mac CatalystmacOS

``` source
class CGDisplayMode
```

## Overview

A display mode is a set of properties (such as width, height, pixel depth, and refresh rate), and options (such as stretched LCD panel filling). For more information see Creating and Managing Display Modes or Getting Information About a Display Mode.

## Topics

### Instance Properties

var height: Int

Returns the height of the specified display mode.

var ioDisplayModeID: Int32

Returns the I/O Kit display mode ID of the specified display mode.

var ioFlags: UInt32

Returns the I/O Kit flags of the specified display mode.

var pixelHeight: Int

var pixelWidth: Int

var refreshRate: Double

Returns the refresh rate of the specified display mode.

var width: Int

Returns the width of the specified display mode.

### Type Properties

class var typeID: CFTypeID

Returns the type identifier of Quartz display modes.

### Instance Methods

var pixelEncoding: CFString?

Returns the pixel encoding of the specified display mode.

Deprecated

func isUsableForDesktopGUI() -> Bool

Returns a Boolean value indicating whether the specified display mode is usable for a desktop graphical user interface.

## Relationships

### Conforms To

- Equatable
- Hashable

## See Also

### Data Types

typealias CGButtonCount

Represents the number of buttons being set in a synthetic mouse event.

typealias CGCharCode

Represents a character generated by pressing one or more keys on a keyboard.

typealias CGDirectDisplayID

A unique identifier for an attached display.

typealias CGDisplayBlendFraction

The percentage of blend color used in a fade operation.

typealias CGDisplayConfigRef

A reference to a display configuration transaction.

typealias CGDisplayCount

The number of displays in various lists.

Deprecated

typealias CGDisplayErr

A uniform type for result codes returned by functions in Quartz Display Services.

Deprecated

typealias CGDisplayFadeInterval

The duration in seconds of a fade operation or a fade hardware reservation.

typealias CGDisplayFadeReservationToken

A token issued by Quartz when reserving one or more displays for a fade operation during a specified interval.

typealias CGDisplayReconfigurationCallBack

A client-supplied callback function that’s invoked whenever the configuration of a local display is changed.

typealias CGDisplayReservationInterval

The time interval for a fade reservation.

class CGDisplayStream

A reference to a display stream object.

typealias CGDisplayStreamFrameAvailableHandler

A block called when a data stream has a new frame event to process.

class CGDisplayStreamUpdate

A reference to frame update’s metadata.

class CGEvent

Defines an opaque type that represents a low-level hardware event.

