

- Core Graphics
-  CGDisplayConfigRef 

Type Alias

# CGDisplayConfigRef

A reference to a display configuration transaction.

Mac CatalystmacOS

``` source
typealias CGDisplayConfigRef = OpaquePointer
```

## Discussion

This data type makes it possible to:

- Create a new display configuration transaction using the function CGBeginDisplayConfiguration(_:)

- Record a set of configuration changes, each bound to one or more displays

- Apply the changes in a single transaction using the function CGCompleteDisplayConfiguration(_:_:), or discard the changes using the function CGCancelDisplayConfiguration(_:)

There are no restrictions on the order in which you accumulate configuration changes in a transaction.

Configuration changes sometimes conflict with each other. For example, a new origin might be rendered invalid by a subsequent configuration change.

If possible, Quartz uses a “best fit” strategy to resolve conflicts between configuration changes. For example, when you change the resolution of a single display in a two-display system, Quartz automatically retiles the displays to prevent separation or overlap of the adjoining edges.

## See Also

### Data Types

typealias CGButtonCount

Represents the number of buttons being set in a synthetic mouse event.

typealias CGCharCode

Represents a character generated by pressing one or more keys on a keyboard.

typealias CGDirectDisplayID

A unique identifier for an attached display.

typealias CGDisplayBlendFraction

The percentage of blend color used in a fade operation.

typealias CGDisplayCount

The number of displays in various lists.

Deprecated

typealias CGDisplayErr

A uniform type for result codes returned by functions in Quartz Display Services.

Deprecated

typealias CGDisplayFadeInterval

The duration in seconds of a fade operation or a fade hardware reservation.

typealias CGDisplayFadeReservationToken

A token issued by Quartz when reserving one or more displays for a fade operation during a specified interval.

class CGDisplayMode

A reference to a display mode object.

typealias CGDisplayReconfigurationCallBack

A client-supplied callback function that’s invoked whenever the configuration of a local display is changed.

typealias CGDisplayReservationInterval

The time interval for a fade reservation.

class CGDisplayStream

A reference to a display stream object.

typealias CGDisplayStreamFrameAvailableHandler

A block called when a data stream has a new frame event to process.

class CGDisplayStreamUpdate

A reference to frame update’s metadata.

class CGEvent

Defines an opaque type that represents a low-level hardware event.

