

- Core Graphics
- CGColorSpace
-  init(calibratedRGBWhitePoint:blackPoint:gamma:matrix:) 

Initializer

# init(calibratedRGBWhitePoint:blackPoint:gamma:matrix:)

Creates a calibrated RGB color space.

iOS 2.0+iPadOS 2.0+Mac Catalyst 13.1+macOS 10.0+tvOSvisionOS 1.0+watchOS 2.0+

``` source
init?(
    calibratedRGBWhitePoint whitePoint: UnsafePointer,
    blackPoint: UnsafePointer?,
    gamma: UnsafePointer?,
    matrix: UnsafePointer?
)
```

## Parameters 

`whitePoint`  

An array of 3 numbers specifying the tristimulus value, in the CIE 1931 XYZ-space, of the diffuse white point.

`blackPoint`  

An array of 3 numbers specifying the tristimulus value, in CIE 1931 XYZ-space, of the diffuse black point.

`gamma`  

An array of 3 numbers specifying the gamma for the red, green, and blue components of the color space.

`matrix`  

An array of 9 numbers specifying the linear interpretation of the gamma-modified RGB values of the color space with respect to the final XYZ representation.

## Return Value

A new calibrated RGB color space, or `NULL` if unsuccessful. In Objective-C, you’re responsible for releasing this object by calling CGColorSpaceRelease.

## Discussion

Creates a device-independent RGB color space that represents colors relative to a reference white point. This white point is based on the whitest light that can be generated by the output device. Colors in a device-independent color space should appear the same when displayed on different devices, to the extent that the capabilities of the device allow.

For color spaces that require a detailed gamma, such as the piecewise transfer function used in sRGB or ITU-R BT.709, you may want to use the function init(iccBasedNComponents:range:profile:alternate:) instead, because it can accurately represent these gamma curves.

## See Also

### Creating Color Spaces

init?(calibratedGrayWhitePoint: UnsafePointer&lt;CGFloat>, blackPoint: UnsafePointer&lt;CGFloat>?, gamma: CGFloat)

Creates a calibrated grayscale color space.

init?(iccBasedNComponents: Int, range: UnsafePointer&lt;CGFloat>?, profile: CGDataProvider, alternate: CGColorSpace?)

Creates a device-independent color space that is defined according to the ICC color profile specification.

init?(indexedBaseSpace: CGColorSpace, last: Int, colorTable: UnsafePointer&lt;UInt8>)

Creates an indexed color space, consisting of colors specified by a color lookup table.

init?(labWhitePoint: UnsafePointer&lt;CGFloat>, blackPoint: UnsafePointer&lt;CGFloat>?, range: UnsafePointer&lt;CGFloat>?)

Creates a device-independent color space that is relative to human color perception, according to the CIE L\*a\*b\* standard.

init?(patternBaseSpace: CGColorSpace?)

Creates a pattern color space.

init?(name: CFString)

Creates a specified type of Quartz color space.

init?(platformColorSpaceRef: UnsafeRawPointer)

Creates a platform-specific color space.

Deprecated

init?(iccData: CFTypeRef)

Creates an ICC-based color space using the ICC profile contained in the specified data.

init?(propertyListPlist: CFPropertyList)

Creates a color space from a property list.

func CGColorSpaceCreateDeviceRGB() -> CGColorSpace

Creates a device-dependent RGB color space.

func CGColorSpaceCreateDeviceCMYK() -> CGColorSpace

Creates a device-dependent CMYK color space.

func CGColorSpaceCreateDeviceGray() -> CGColorSpace

Creates a device-dependent grayscale color space.

init?(iccProfileData: CFData)

Creates an ICC-based color space using the ICC profile contained in the specified data.

Deprecated

