

- Core Graphics
-  CGDisplayBlendFraction 

Type Alias

# CGDisplayBlendFraction

The percentage of blend color used in a fade operation.

Mac CatalystmacOS

``` source
typealias CGDisplayBlendFraction = Float
```

## Discussion

The blend fraction ranges from 0 (no color) to 1 (full intensity). If you specify 0, the blend color is not applied. If you specify 1, the user sees only the blend color on the screen.

In a fade operation, Quartz blends a color specified by the application with the current contents of the framebuffer. The blend color can be applied both at the beginning and at the end of a fade operation.

Color blending during a fade operation is analogous to alpha blending in Quartz 2D, and the appearance is similar. However, the implementation is quite different. In a fade operation, the blend color is applied at the very end of the graphics pipeline, when the framebuffer is transferred to video output.

For example, the Universal Access preference panel in macOS allows you to select a flashing screen effect (sometimes called a visual bell) to accompany the system alert sound. When you select this option, the system uses a Quartz fade operation to produce the flash. The blend color is applied using a blend fraction of 0.5 or 50%.

## See Also

### Data Types

typealias CGButtonCount

Represents the number of buttons being set in a synthetic mouse event.

typealias CGCharCode

Represents a character generated by pressing one or more keys on a keyboard.

typealias CGDirectDisplayID

A unique identifier for an attached display.

typealias CGDisplayConfigRef

A reference to a display configuration transaction.

typealias CGDisplayCount

The number of displays in various lists.

Deprecated

typealias CGDisplayErr

A uniform type for result codes returned by functions in Quartz Display Services.

Deprecated

typealias CGDisplayFadeInterval

The duration in seconds of a fade operation or a fade hardware reservation.

typealias CGDisplayFadeReservationToken

A token issued by Quartz when reserving one or more displays for a fade operation during a specified interval.

class CGDisplayMode

A reference to a display mode object.

typealias CGDisplayReconfigurationCallBack

A client-supplied callback function that’s invoked whenever the configuration of a local display is changed.

typealias CGDisplayReservationInterval

The time interval for a fade reservation.

class CGDisplayStream

A reference to a display stream object.

typealias CGDisplayStreamFrameAvailableHandler

A block called when a data stream has a new frame event to process.

class CGDisplayStreamUpdate

A reference to frame update’s metadata.

class CGEvent

Defines an opaque type that represents a low-level hardware event.

