

- Core Graphics
-  CGScreenUpdateMoveCallback 

Type Alias

# CGScreenUpdateMoveCallback

A client-supplied callback function invoked when an area of the display is moved.

Mac CatalystmacOS

``` source
typealias CGScreenUpdateMoveCallback = (CGScreenUpdateMoveDelta, Int, UnsafePointer, UnsafeMutableRawPointer?) -> Void
```

## Parameters 

`delta`  

The distance, in pixel unites, that the display area has moved.

`count`  

The number of rectangles in the `rectArray` parameter.

`rectArray`  

A list of the rectangles in the moved areas, specified in the global display coordinate space. The origin is the upper-left corner of the main display. The rectangles describe the area prior to the move operation. You should not modify or deallocate memory pointed to by `rectArray`.

`userParameter`  

The user data you specify when you register this callback.

## Discussion

To register a screen-move callback function, you call the function CGScreenRegisterMoveCallback(_:_:). Quartz invokes your callback function when operations such as window movement or scrolling occur on local displays. When you finish using a callback registration, you should call the function CGScreenUnregisterMoveCallback(_:_:) to remove it.

Note that a single rectangle may occupy multiple displays, either by overlapping the displays or by residing on coincident displays when mirroring is active. You can use the function CGGetDisplaysWithRect(_:_:_:_:) to determine the displays a rectangle occupies.

## See Also

### Data Types

typealias CGButtonCount

Represents the number of buttons being set in a synthetic mouse event.

typealias CGCharCode

Represents a character generated by pressing one or more keys on a keyboard.

typealias CGDirectDisplayID

A unique identifier for an attached display.

typealias CGDisplayBlendFraction

The percentage of blend color used in a fade operation.

typealias CGDisplayConfigRef

A reference to a display configuration transaction.

typealias CGDisplayCount

The number of displays in various lists.

Deprecated

typealias CGDisplayErr

A uniform type for result codes returned by functions in Quartz Display Services.

Deprecated

typealias CGDisplayFadeInterval

The duration in seconds of a fade operation or a fade hardware reservation.

typealias CGDisplayFadeReservationToken

A token issued by Quartz when reserving one or more displays for a fade operation during a specified interval.

class CGDisplayMode

A reference to a display mode object.

typealias CGDisplayReconfigurationCallBack

A client-supplied callback function that’s invoked whenever the configuration of a local display is changed.

typealias CGDisplayReservationInterval

The time interval for a fade reservation.

class CGDisplayStream

A reference to a display stream object.

typealias CGDisplayStreamFrameAvailableHandler

A block called when a data stream has a new frame event to process.

class CGDisplayStreamUpdate

A reference to frame update’s metadata.

