

- Core Graphics
-  CGEventTapCallBack 

Type Alias

# CGEventTapCallBack

A client-supplied callback function that’s invoked whenever an associated event tap receives a Quartz event.

Mac CatalystmacOS

``` source
typealias CGEventTapCallBack = (CGEventTapProxy, CGEventType, CGEvent, UnsafeMutableRawPointer?) -> Unmanaged?
```

## Parameters 

`proxy`  

A proxy for the event tap. See CGEventTapProxy. This callback function may pass this proxy to other functions such as the event-posting routines.

`type`  

The event type of this event. See CGEventType.

`event`  

The incoming event. This event is owned by the caller, and you do not need to release it.

`refcon`  

A pointer to user-defined data. You specify this pointer when you create the event tap. Several different event taps could use the same callback function, each tap with its own user-defined data.

## Discussion

If the event tap is an active filter, your callback function should return one of the following:

- The (possibly modified) event that is passed in. This event is passed back to the event system.

- A newly-constructed event. After the new event has been passed back to the event system, the new event will be released along with the original event.

- `NULL` if the event passed in is to be deleted.

If the event tap is an passive listener, your callback function may return the event that is passed in, or `NULL`. In either case, the event stream is not affected.

## See Also

### Data Types

typealias CGButtonCount

Represents the number of buttons being set in a synthetic mouse event.

typealias CGCharCode

Represents a character generated by pressing one or more keys on a keyboard.

typealias CGDirectDisplayID

A unique identifier for an attached display.

typealias CGDisplayBlendFraction

The percentage of blend color used in a fade operation.

typealias CGDisplayConfigRef

A reference to a display configuration transaction.

typealias CGDisplayCount

The number of displays in various lists.

Deprecated

typealias CGDisplayErr

A uniform type for result codes returned by functions in Quartz Display Services.

Deprecated

typealias CGDisplayFadeInterval

The duration in seconds of a fade operation or a fade hardware reservation.

typealias CGDisplayFadeReservationToken

A token issued by Quartz when reserving one or more displays for a fade operation during a specified interval.

class CGDisplayMode

A reference to a display mode object.

typealias CGDisplayReconfigurationCallBack

A client-supplied callback function that’s invoked whenever the configuration of a local display is changed.

typealias CGDisplayReservationInterval

The time interval for a fade reservation.

class CGDisplayStream

A reference to a display stream object.

typealias CGDisplayStreamFrameAvailableHandler

A block called when a data stream has a new frame event to process.

class CGDisplayStreamUpdate

A reference to frame update’s metadata.

