

- Core Graphics
-  CGDisplayStream 

Class

# CGDisplayStream

A reference to a display stream object.

Mac CatalystmacOS

``` source
class CGDisplayStream
```

## Overview

This data type streams the contents of a display to your app. The contents can be scaled or converted to a different color space. You can also choose to capture only a portion of a display. Your update handler can be called either from a traditional`CFRunLoop` or on a dispatch queue.

## Topics

### Type Properties

class let yCbCrMatrix_ITU_R_601_4: CFString

Specifies the YCbCr to RGB conversion matrix for standard digital television (ITU R 601) images.

class let yCbCrMatrix_ITU_R_709_2: CFString

Specifies the YCbCr to RGB conversion matrix for HDTV digital television (ITU R 709) images.

class let yCbCrMatrix_SMPTE_240M_1995: CFString

Specifies the YCbCR to RGB conversion matrix for 1920 x 1135 HDTV (SMPTE 240M 1995).

## Relationships

### Conforms To

- Equatable
- Hashable

## See Also

### Data Types

typealias CGButtonCount

Represents the number of buttons being set in a synthetic mouse event.

typealias CGCharCode

Represents a character generated by pressing one or more keys on a keyboard.

typealias CGDirectDisplayID

A unique identifier for an attached display.

typealias CGDisplayBlendFraction

The percentage of blend color used in a fade operation.

typealias CGDisplayConfigRef

A reference to a display configuration transaction.

typealias CGDisplayCount

The number of displays in various lists.

Deprecated

typealias CGDisplayErr

A uniform type for result codes returned by functions in Quartz Display Services.

Deprecated

typealias CGDisplayFadeInterval

The duration in seconds of a fade operation or a fade hardware reservation.

typealias CGDisplayFadeReservationToken

A token issued by Quartz when reserving one or more displays for a fade operation during a specified interval.

class CGDisplayMode

A reference to a display mode object.

typealias CGDisplayReconfigurationCallBack

A client-supplied callback function that’s invoked whenever the configuration of a local display is changed.

typealias CGDisplayReservationInterval

The time interval for a fade reservation.

typealias CGDisplayStreamFrameAvailableHandler

A block called when a data stream has a new frame event to process.

class CGDisplayStreamUpdate

A reference to frame update’s metadata.

class CGEvent

Defines an opaque type that represents a low-level hardware event.

