

- SwiftUI
-  KeyPress 

Structure

# KeyPress

iOS 17.0+iPadOS 17.0+Mac Catalyst 17.0+macOS 14.0+tvOS 17.0+visionOS 1.0+

``` source
struct KeyPress
```

## Topics

### Getting the keypress

let key: KeyEquivalent

The key equivalent value for the pressed key.

let characters: String

The characters generated by the pressed key as if no modifier key applies.

let modifiers: EventModifiers

The set of modifier keys the user held in addition to the pressed key.

### Getting the phase of the keypress

let phase: KeyPress.Phases

The phase of the key-press event (`.down`, `.repeat`, or `.up`).

struct Phases

Options for matching different phases of a key-press event.

### Getting the result

enum Result

A result value returned from a key-press action that indicates whether the action consumed the event.

## Relationships

### Conforms To

- Copyable
- CustomDebugStringConvertible
- Sendable

## See Also

### Responding to keyboard input

func onKeyPress(KeyEquivalent, action: () -> KeyPress.Result) -> some View

Performs an action if the user presses a key on a hardware keyboard while the view has focus.

func onKeyPress(phases: KeyPress.Phases, action: (KeyPress) -> KeyPress.Result) -> some View

Performs an action if the user presses any key on a hardware keyboard while the view has focus.

func onKeyPress(KeyEquivalent, phases: KeyPress.Phases, action: (KeyPress) -> KeyPress.Result) -> some View

Performs an action if the user presses a key on a hardware keyboard while the view has focus.

func onKeyPress(characters: CharacterSet, phases: KeyPress.Phases, action: (KeyPress) -> KeyPress.Result) -> some View

Performs an action if the user presses one or more keys on a hardware keyboard while the view has focus.

func onKeyPress(keys: Set&lt;KeyEquivalent>, phases: KeyPress.Phases, action: (KeyPress) -> KeyPress.Result) -> some View

Performs an action if the user presses one or more keys on a hardware keyboard while the view has focus.

