

- SwiftUI
- View
-  keyframeAnimator(initialValue:repeating:content:keyframes:) 

Instance Method

# keyframeAnimator(initialValue:repeating:content:keyframes:)

Loops the given keyframes continuously, updating the view using the modifiers you apply in `body`.

iOS 17.0+iPadOS 17.0+Mac Catalyst 17.0+macOS 14.0+tvOS 17.0+visionOS 1.0+watchOS 10.0+

``` source
nonisolated
func keyframeAnimator(
    initialValue: Value,
    repeating: Bool = true,
    @ViewBuilder content: @escaping (PlaceholderContentView, Value) -> some View,
    @KeyframesBuilder keyframes: @escaping (Value) -> some Keyframes
) -> some View
```

## Parameters 

`initialValue`  

The initial value that the keyframes will animate from.

`repeating`  

Whether the keyframes are currently repeating. If false, the value at the beginning of the keyframe timeline will be provided to the content closure.

`content`  

A view builder closure that takes two parameters. The first parameter is a proxy value representing the modified view. The second parameter is the interpolated value generated by the keyframes.

`keyframes`  

Keyframes defining how the value changes over time. The current value of the animator is the single argument, which is equal to `initialValue` when the view first appears, then is equal to the end value of the previous keyframe animation on subsequent calls.

## Discussion

Note that the `content` closure will be updated on every frame while animating, so avoid performing any expensive operations directly within `content`.

## See Also

### Creating keyframe-based animation

func keyframeAnimator&lt;Value>(initialValue: Value, trigger: some Equatable, content: (PlaceholderContentView&lt;Self>, Value) -> some View, keyframes: (Value) -> some Keyframes) -> some View

Plays the given keyframes when the given trigger value changes, updating the view using the modifiers you apply in `body`.

struct KeyframeAnimator

A container that animates its content with keyframes.

protocol Keyframes

A type that defines changes to a value over time.

struct KeyframeTimeline

A description of how a value changes over time, modeled using keyframes.

struct KeyframeTrack

A sequence of keyframes animating a single property of a root type.

struct KeyframeTrackContentBuilder

The builder that creates keyframe track content from the keyframes that you define within a closure.

struct KeyframesBuilder

A builder that combines keyframe content values into a single value.

protocol KeyframeTrackContent

A group of keyframes that define an interpolation curve of an animatable value.

struct CubicKeyframe

A keyframe that uses a cubic curve to smoothly interpolate between values.

struct LinearKeyframe

A keyframe that uses simple linear interpolation.

struct MoveKeyframe

A keyframe that immediately moves to the given value without interpolating.

struct SpringKeyframe

A keyframe that uses a spring function to interpolate to the given value.

