

- Core Video
-  Result Codes 

API Collection

# Result Codes

Describes the result codes generated by Core Video operations.

## Topics

### Common

Result codes related to a number of Core Video operations.

var kCVReturnAllocationFailed: CVReturn

Memory allocation for a buffer or buffer pool failed.

var kCVReturnError: CVReturn

An otherwise undefined error occurred.

var kCVReturnInvalidArgument: CVReturn

Invalid function parameter. For example, out of range or the wrong type.

var kCVReturnSuccess: CVReturn

Indicates the operation completed successfully.

var kCVReturnUnsupported: CVReturn

var kCVReturnLast: CVReturn

Placeholder to mark the end of Core Video result codes (not returned by any functions).

var kCVReturnFirst: CVReturn

Placeholder to mark the beginning of Core Video result codes (not returned by any functions).

### Pixel Buffer

Result codes related to CVPixelBuffer operations.

var kCVReturnInvalidPixelBufferAttributes: CVReturn

A buffer cannot be created with the specified attributes.

var kCVReturnInvalidPixelFormat: CVReturn

The buffer does not support the specified pixel format.

var kCVReturnInvalidSize: CVReturn

The buffer cannot support the requested buffer size (usually too big).

var kCVReturnPixelBufferNotMetalCompatible: CVReturn

The pixel buffer is not compatible with Metal due to an unsupported buffer size, pixel format, or attribute.

var kCVReturnPixelBufferNotOpenGLCompatible: CVReturn

The pixel buffer is not compatible with OpenGL due to an unsupported buffer size, pixel format, or attribute.

### Buffer Pool

Result codes related to CVPixelBufferPool operations.

var kCVReturnRetry: CVReturn

A scan hasn’t completely traversed the `CVBufferPool` due to a concurrent operation.

var kCVReturnInvalidPoolAttributes: CVReturn

A buffer pool cannot be created with the specified attributes.

var kCVReturnPoolAllocationFailed: CVReturn

Allocation for a buffer pool failed, most likely due to a lack of resources. Check to make sure your parameters are in range.

var kCVReturnWouldExceedAllocationThreshold: CVReturn

Allocation for a pixel buffer failed because the threshold value set for the kCVPixelBufferPoolAllocationThresholdKey key in the CVPixelBufferPoolCreatePixelBufferWithAuxAttributes(_:_:_:_:) function would be surpassed.

### Display Link

Result codes related to CVDisplayLink operations.

var kCVReturnInvalidDisplay: CVReturn

The display specified when creating a display link is invalid.

var kCVReturnDisplayLinkAlreadyRunning: CVReturn

The specified display link is already running.

var kCVReturnDisplayLinkNotRunning: CVReturn

The specified display link is not running.

var kCVReturnDisplayLinkCallbacksNotSet: CVReturn

No callback registered for the specified display link. You must set either the output callback or both the render and display callbacks.

## See Also

### Core Video Error Constants

Data Types

Common data types used by the Core Video framework.

