

- GameplayKit
-  GKCylindersNoiseSource 

Class

# GKCylindersNoiseSource

A procedural noise generator whose output is a 3D field of concentric cylindrical shells.

iOS 10.0+iPadOS 10.0+Mac Catalyst 13.1+macOS 10.12+tvOS 10.0+visionOS 1.0+

``` source
class GKCylindersNoiseSource
```

## Overview

All noise sources generate infinite 3D fields of noise values, but this fact is especially relevant to cylinder noise: by rotating a noise object in 3D, you can sample the noise in ways that “slice” across or along the cylinders. Use this technique (combined with other noise sources and noise processing operations) to create effects such as wood-grain textures.

Like all GKNoiseSource subclasses, a cylinder noise source represents a noise generation algorithm and its parameters. To make use of a noise source, first create GKNoise object from it (and optionally apply operations to that noise object or combine it with other noise objects). Then create a GKNoiseMap object from your noise object, generating a concrete field of values that you can sample from directly or visualize using the SKTexture or `SKTileMap` class.

## Topics

### Creating a Noise Source

init(frequency: Double)

Initializes a cylinder noise source with the specified frequency.

class func cylindersNoise(withFrequency: Double) -> Self

Creates a cylinder noise source with the specified frequency.

### Managing Noise Generation Parameters

var frequency: Double

A value that determines the size and spacing of concentric cylinders.

## Relationships

### Inherits From

- GKNoiseSource

### Conforms To

- CVarArg
- CustomDebugStringConvertible
- CustomStringConvertible
- Equatable
- Hashable
- NSObjectProtocol

## See Also

### Procedural Noise

class GKNoiseSource

The abstract superclass for procedural noise generators.

class GKNoise

A representation of procedural noise, generated by a noise source, that you can use to process, transform, or combine noise.

class GKNoiseMap

A sample of procedural noise data from which you can read noise values directly or create noise textures.

class GKCoherentNoiseSource

The abstract superclass for procedural noise generators that create coherent noise.

class GKBillowNoiseSource

A procedural noise generator whose output is a type of fractal coherent noise with smooth features.

class GKPerlinNoiseSource

A procedural noise generator whose output is a type of fractal coherent noise resembling natural phenomena such as clouds and terrain.

class GKRidgedNoiseSource

A procedural noise generator whose output is a type of multifractal coherent noise with sharply defined features.

class GKVoronoiNoiseSource

A procedural noise generator whose output (also called Worley noise or cellular noise) divides space into discrete cells surrounding random seed points.

class GKSpheresNoiseSource

A procedural noise generator whose output is a 3D field of concentric spherical shells.

class GKCheckerboardNoiseSource

A procedural noise generator whose output is an alternating square pattern.

class GKConstantNoiseSource

A procedural noise generator that outputs a field of a single constant value.

