

- Metal
- MTLIndirectRenderCommand
-  drawPatches(\_:patchStart:patchCount:patchIndexBuffer:patchIndexBufferOffset:instanceCount:baseInstance:tessellationFactorBuffer:tessellationFactorBufferOffset:tessellationFactorBufferInstanceStride:) 

Instance Method

# drawPatches(\_:patchStart:patchCount:patchIndexBuffer:patchIndexBufferOffset:instanceCount:baseInstance:tessellationFactorBuffer:tessellationFactorBufferOffset:tessellationFactorBufferInstanceStride:)

Encodes a command to render a number of instances of tessellated patches.

iOS 12.0+iPadOS 12.0+Mac Catalyst 13.1+macOS 10.14+tvOS 14.5+visionOS 1.0+

``` source
func drawPatches(
    _ numberOfPatchControlPoints: Int,
    patchStart: Int,
    patchCount: Int,
    patchIndexBuffer: (any MTLBuffer)?,
    patchIndexBufferOffset: Int,
    instanceCount: Int,
    baseInstance: Int,
    tessellationFactorBuffer buffer: any MTLBuffer,
    tessellationFactorBufferOffset offset: Int,
    tessellationFactorBufferInstanceStride instanceStride: Int
)
```

**Required**

## Parameters 

`numberOfPatchControlPoints`  

The number of control points per patch. This value must be between `0` and `32`, inclusive.

`patchStart`  

The first patch to draw.

`patchCount`  

The number of patches in each instance.

`patchIndexBuffer`  

A buffer that contains indices to patches.

`patchIndexBufferOffset`  

The byte offset within `patchIndexBuffer` to start reading indices from.

`instanceCount`  

The number of instances to draw.

`baseInstance`  

The first instance to draw.

`buffer`  

The per-patch tessellation factors buffer.

`offset`  

The distance, in bytes, between the start of the data and the start of the buffer. This value must be a multiple of `4` bytes.

`instanceStride`  

The distance, in bytes, between two instances of data in the buffer.

## Discussion

The command generated by this method is equivalent to calling setTessellationFactorBuffer(_:offset:instanceStride:) followed by drawPatches(numberOfPatchControlPoints:patchStart:patchCount:patchIndexBuffer:patchIndexBufferOffset:instanceCount:baseInstance:).

## See Also

### Encoding a Drawing Command

func drawPrimitives(MTLPrimitiveType, vertexStart: Int, vertexCount: Int, instanceCount: Int, baseInstance: Int)

Encodes a command to render a number of instances of primitives using vertex data in contiguous array elements, starting from the base instance.

**Required**

func drawIndexedPrimitives(MTLPrimitiveType, indexCount: Int, indexType: MTLIndexType, indexBuffer: any MTLBuffer, indexBufferOffset: Int, instanceCount: Int, baseVertex: Int, baseInstance: Int)

Encodes a command to render a number of instances of primitives using an index list specified in a buffer, starting from the base vertex of the base instance.

**Required**

func drawIndexedPatches(Int, patchStart: Int, patchCount: Int, patchIndexBuffer: (any MTLBuffer)?, patchIndexBufferOffset: Int, controlPointIndexBuffer: any MTLBuffer, controlPointIndexBufferOffset: Int, instanceCount: Int, baseInstance: Int, tessellationFactorBuffer: any MTLBuffer, tessellationFactorBufferOffset: Int, tessellationFactorBufferInstanceStride: Int)

Encodes a command to render a number of instances of tessellated patches, using a control point index buffer.

**Required**

