

- Metal
- MTLIndirectRenderCommand
-  drawIndexedPrimitives(\_:indexCount:indexType:indexBuffer:indexBufferOffset:instanceCount:baseVertex:baseInstance:) 

Instance Method

# drawIndexedPrimitives(\_:indexCount:indexType:indexBuffer:indexBufferOffset:instanceCount:baseVertex:baseInstance:)

Encodes a command to render a number of instances of primitives using an index list specified in a buffer, starting from the base vertex of the base instance.

iOS 12.0+iPadOS 12.0+Mac Catalyst 13.1+macOS 10.14+tvOS 12.0+visionOS 1.0+

``` source
func drawIndexedPrimitives(
    _ primitiveType: MTLPrimitiveType,
    indexCount: Int,
    indexType: MTLIndexType,
    indexBuffer: any MTLBuffer,
    indexBufferOffset: Int,
    instanceCount: Int,
    baseVertex: Int,
    baseInstance: Int
)
```

**Required**

## Parameters 

`primitiveType`  

The type of primitive that the vertices are assembled into.

`indexCount`  

For each instance, the number of indices to read from the index buffer.

`indexType`  

The data type of the indices.

`indexBuffer`  

A buffer that contains indices to vertices.

`indexBufferOffset`  

Byte offset within indexBuffer to start reading indices from.

`instanceCount`  

The number of instances to draw.

`baseVertex`  

The first vertex to draw.

`baseInstance`  

The first instance to draw.

## Discussion

The command generated by this method is equivalent to calling drawIndexedPrimitives(type:indexCount:indexType:indexBuffer:indexBufferOffset:instanceCount:baseVertex:baseInstance:).

## See Also

### Encoding a Drawing Command

func drawPrimitives(MTLPrimitiveType, vertexStart: Int, vertexCount: Int, instanceCount: Int, baseInstance: Int)

Encodes a command to render a number of instances of primitives using vertex data in contiguous array elements, starting from the base instance.

**Required**

func drawPatches(Int, patchStart: Int, patchCount: Int, patchIndexBuffer: (any MTLBuffer)?, patchIndexBufferOffset: Int, instanceCount: Int, baseInstance: Int, tessellationFactorBuffer: any MTLBuffer, tessellationFactorBufferOffset: Int, tessellationFactorBufferInstanceStride: Int)

Encodes a command to render a number of instances of tessellated patches.

**Required**

func drawIndexedPatches(Int, patchStart: Int, patchCount: Int, patchIndexBuffer: (any MTLBuffer)?, patchIndexBufferOffset: Int, controlPointIndexBuffer: any MTLBuffer, controlPointIndexBufferOffset: Int, instanceCount: Int, baseInstance: Int, tessellationFactorBuffer: any MTLBuffer, tessellationFactorBufferOffset: Int, tessellationFactorBufferInstanceStride: Int)

Encodes a command to render a number of instances of tessellated patches, using a control point index buffer.

**Required**

