

- Metal
-  MTLMultisampleDepthResolveFilter 

Enumeration

# MTLMultisampleDepthResolveFilter

Filtering options for controlling an MSAA depth resolve operation.

iOS 9.0+iPadOS 9.0+Mac Catalyst 13.1+macOS 10.14+tvOS 9.0+visionOS 1.0+

``` source
enum MTLMultisampleDepthResolveFilter
```

## Topics

### Constants

case sample0

No filter is applied.

case min

The GPU compares all depth samples in the pixel and selects the sample with the smallest value.

case max

The GPU compares all depth samples in the pixel and selects the sample with the largest value.

### Initializers

init?(rawValue: UInt)

## Relationships

### Conforms To

- BitwiseCopyable
- Equatable
- Hashable
- RawRepresentable
- Sendable

## See Also

### Configuring a Render Command Encoder

class MTLRenderPassDescriptor

A group of render targets that hold the results of a render pass.

class MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor

A render target that serves as the output destination for pixels generated by a render pass.

class MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptorArray

An array of render pass color attachment descriptor objects.

class MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptor

A color render target that serves as the output destination for color pixels generated by a render pass.

struct MTLClearColor

An RGBA value used for a color pixel.

class MTLRenderPassDepthAttachmentDescriptor

A depth render target that serves as the output destination for depth pixels generated by a render pass.

class MTLTileRenderPipelineColorAttachmentDescriptorArray

An array of color attachment descriptors for the tile render pipeline.

class MTLRenderPassStencilAttachmentDescriptor

A stencil render target that serves as the output destination for stencil pixels generated by a render pass.

enum MTLMultisampleStencilResolveFilter

Constants used to control the multisample stencil resolve operation.

class MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptorArray

An array of sample buffer attachments for a render pass.

class MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptor

A description of where to store GPU counter information at the start and end of a render pass.

