

- Metal
-  MTLRenderPassDescriptor 

Class

# MTLRenderPassDescriptor

A group of render targets that hold the results of a render pass.

iOS 8.0+iPadOS 8.0+Mac Catalyst 13.1+macOS 10.11+tvOSvisionOS 1.0+

``` source
class MTLRenderPassDescriptor
```

## Mentioned in 

Sampling GPU Data into Counter Sample Buffers

Positioning Samples Programmatically

Rendering to Multiple Texture Slices in a Draw Command

## Overview

A MTLRenderPassDescriptor object contains a collection of attachments used as the rendering destination for pixels generated by a rendering pass. The MTLRenderPassDescriptor object also sets the destination buffer for visibility information generated by a rendering pass.

Important

When configuring a MTLTextureDescriptor object for use with an attachment, set its usage value to renderTarget if you already know that you intend to use the resulting MTLTexture object in an attachment. This may significantly improve your app’s performance with certain hardware.

## Topics

### Specifying the Attachments for a Rendering Pass

var colorAttachments: MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptorArray

An array of state information for attachments that store color data.

var depthAttachment: MTLRenderPassDepthAttachmentDescriptor!

State information for an attachment that stores depth data.

var stencilAttachment: MTLRenderPassStencilAttachmentDescriptor!

State information for an attachment that stores stencil data.

### Specifying the Visibility Result Buffer

var visibilityResultBuffer: (any MTLBuffer)?

A buffer where the GPU writes visibility test results when fragments pass depth and stencil tests.

### Layered Rendering

var renderTargetArrayLength: Int

The number of active layers that all attachments must have for layered rendering.

var renderTargetWidth: Int

The width, in pixels, to constrain the render target to.

var renderTargetHeight: Int

The height, in pixels, to constrain the render target to.

### Using Programmable Sample Positions

func MTLSamplePositionMake(Float, Float) -> MTLSamplePosition

Returns a new sample position on a subpixel grid.

func setSamplePositions([MTLSamplePosition])

Sets the programmable sample positions for a render pass.

func getSamplePositions() -> [MTLSamplePosition]

Returns the programmable sample positions set for a render pass.

### Specifying Tile Shading Parameters

var imageblockSampleLength: Int

The per-sample size, in bytes, of the largest explicit imageblock layout in the render pass.

var threadgroupMemoryLength: Int

The per-tile size, in bytes, of the persistent threadgroup memory allocation.

var tileWidth: Int

The tile width, in pixels.

var tileHeight: Int

The tile height, in pixels.

### Specifying Sample Counts

var defaultRasterSampleCount: Int

The raster sample count for the render pass when the render pass doesn’t have explicit attachments.

### Specifying a Rasterization Rate Map

var rasterizationRateMap: (any MTLRasterizationRateMap)?

The rasterization rate map to use when executing the render pass.

### Specifying Sample Buffers for GPU Counters

var sampleBufferAttachments: MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptorArray

The array of sample buffers that the render pass can access.

## Relationships

### Inherits From

- NSObject

### Conforms To

- CVarArg
- CustomDebugStringConvertible
- CustomStringConvertible
- Equatable
- Hashable
- NSCopying
- NSObjectProtocol

## See Also

### Configuring a Render Command Encoder

class MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor

A render target that serves as the output destination for pixels generated by a render pass.

class MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptorArray

An array of render pass color attachment descriptor objects.

class MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptor

A color render target that serves as the output destination for color pixels generated by a render pass.

struct MTLClearColor

An RGBA value used for a color pixel.

class MTLRenderPassDepthAttachmentDescriptor

A depth render target that serves as the output destination for depth pixels generated by a render pass.

enum MTLMultisampleDepthResolveFilter

Filtering options for controlling an MSAA depth resolve operation.

class MTLTileRenderPipelineColorAttachmentDescriptorArray

An array of color attachment descriptors for the tile render pipeline.

class MTLRenderPassStencilAttachmentDescriptor

A stencil render target that serves as the output destination for stencil pixels generated by a render pass.

enum MTLMultisampleStencilResolveFilter

Constants used to control the multisample stencil resolve operation.

class MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptorArray

An array of sample buffer attachments for a render pass.

class MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptor

A description of where to store GPU counter information at the start and end of a render pass.

