

- Metal
-  MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor 

Class

# MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor

A render target that serves as the output destination for pixels generated by a render pass.

iOS 8.0+iPadOS 8.0+Mac Catalyst 13.1+macOS 10.11+tvOSvisionOS 1.0+

``` source
class MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor
```

## Mentioned in 

Setting Load and Store Actions

Choosing a Resource Storage Mode for Apple GPUs

## Overview

Use a MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor object to configure an individual render target of a framebuffer. Each MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor object specifies one texture that a graphics rendering pass can write into.

Typically, you don’t directly create MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor objects. Instead, the MTLRenderPassDescriptor object creates a default set of attachment objects. For each attachment that you intend to use as a render target, retrieve the MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor object from the render pass descriptor and configure its properties for use during this rendering pass.

You must set the attachment’s texture property. The level, slice, and depthPlane properties specify the mipmap level, slice, and depth plane (for 3D textures) of the texture, respectively.

The loadAction and storeAction properties specify actions to perform at the start and end of a rendering pass for the attachment, respectively. For example, if you set the loadAction property of an attachment to MTLLoadAction.clear, then the contents of the texture fill with a value for the type of attachment at the start of the rendering pass.

There are specific MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor subclasses for color, depth, and stencil attachments. Each subclass provides additional properties to configure for that kind of attachment. The table below provides the list of subclasses.

| Attachment type | Descriptor subclass |
|----|----|
| Color | MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptor |
| Depth | MTLRenderPassDepthAttachmentDescriptor |
| Stencil | MTLRenderPassStencilAttachmentDescriptor |

### Multisampling

To perform multisampled antialiased rendering, you use two textures. Attach to the texture property a MTLTextureType.type2DMultisample texture, and a 2D or cube texture to the resolveTexture property. When a rendering command executes, it renders to the multisample texture. At the end of the render pass, the GPU resolves the contents of the multisample texture and writes the results into the resolve texture. The resolveLevel, resolveSlice, and resolveDepthPlane properties specify where the resolved image is written to. The attachment’s storeAction property determines what happens to the multisample texture after the GPU resolves its data.

## Topics

### Specifying the Texture for the Attachment

var texture: (any MTLTexture)?

The texture object associated with this attachment.

var level: Int

The mipmap level of the texture used for rendering to the attachment.

var slice: Int

The slice of the texture used for rendering to the attachment.

var depthPlane: Int

The depth plane of the texture used for rendering to the attachment.

### Specifying Rendering Pass Actions

var loadAction: MTLLoadAction

The action performed by this attachment at the start of a rendering pass for a render command encoder.

var storeAction: MTLStoreAction

The action performed by this attachment at the end of a rendering pass for a render command encoder.

var storeActionOptions: MTLStoreActionOptions

The options that modify the store action performed by this attachment.

### Specifying the Texture to Resolve Multisample Data

var resolveTexture: (any MTLTexture)?

The destination texture used when resolving multisampled texture data into single sample values.

var resolveLevel: Int

The mipmap level of the texture used for the multisample resolve action.

var resolveSlice: Int

The slice of the texture used for the multisample resolve action.

var resolveDepthPlane: Int

The depth plane of the texture used for the multisample resolve action.

## Relationships

### Inherits From

- NSObject

### Inherited By

- MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptor
- MTLRenderPassDepthAttachmentDescriptor
- MTLRenderPassStencilAttachmentDescriptor

### Conforms To

- CVarArg
- CustomDebugStringConvertible
- CustomStringConvertible
- Equatable
- Hashable
- NSCopying
- NSObjectProtocol

## See Also

### Configuring a Render Command Encoder

class MTLRenderPassDescriptor

A group of render targets that hold the results of a render pass.

class MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptorArray

An array of render pass color attachment descriptor objects.

class MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptor

A color render target that serves as the output destination for color pixels generated by a render pass.

struct MTLClearColor

An RGBA value used for a color pixel.

class MTLRenderPassDepthAttachmentDescriptor

A depth render target that serves as the output destination for depth pixels generated by a render pass.

enum MTLMultisampleDepthResolveFilter

Filtering options for controlling an MSAA depth resolve operation.

class MTLTileRenderPipelineColorAttachmentDescriptorArray

An array of color attachment descriptors for the tile render pipeline.

class MTLRenderPassStencilAttachmentDescriptor

A stencil render target that serves as the output destination for stencil pixels generated by a render pass.

enum MTLMultisampleStencilResolveFilter

Constants used to control the multisample stencil resolve operation.

class MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptorArray

An array of sample buffer attachments for a render pass.

class MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptor

A description of where to store GPU counter information at the start and end of a render pass.

