

- Metal
-  MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptor 

Class

# MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptor

A description of where to store GPU counter information at the start and end of a render pass.

iOS 14.0+iPadOS 14.0+Mac Catalyst 14.0+macOS 11.0+tvOS 14.0+visionOS 1.0+

``` source
class MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptor
```

## Mentioned in 

Sampling GPU Data into Counter Sample Buffers

Creating a Counter Sample Buffer to Store a GPU’s Counter Data During a Pass

## Topics

### Configuring the Sample Buffer Attachment

var sampleBuffer: (any MTLCounterSampleBuffer)?

A specialized memory buffer that the GPU uses to store its counter data during the render pass.

var startOfVertexSampleIndex: Int

The index the Metal device object should use to store GPU counters when starting the render pass’s vertex stage.

var endOfVertexSampleIndex: Int

The index the Metal device object should use to store GPU counters when ending the render pass’s vertex stage.

var startOfFragmentSampleIndex: Int

The index the Metal device object should use to store GPU counters when starting the render pass’s fragment stage.

var endOfFragmentSampleIndex: Int

The index the Metal device object should use to store GPU counters when ending the render pass’s fragment stage.

## Relationships

### Inherits From

- NSObject

### Conforms To

- CVarArg
- CustomDebugStringConvertible
- CustomStringConvertible
- Equatable
- Hashable
- NSCopying
- NSObjectProtocol

## See Also

### Configuring a Render Command Encoder

class MTLRenderPassDescriptor

A group of render targets that hold the results of a render pass.

class MTLRenderPassAttachmentDescriptor

A render target that serves as the output destination for pixels generated by a render pass.

class MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptorArray

An array of render pass color attachment descriptor objects.

class MTLRenderPassColorAttachmentDescriptor

A color render target that serves as the output destination for color pixels generated by a render pass.

struct MTLClearColor

An RGBA value used for a color pixel.

class MTLRenderPassDepthAttachmentDescriptor

A depth render target that serves as the output destination for depth pixels generated by a render pass.

enum MTLMultisampleDepthResolveFilter

Filtering options for controlling an MSAA depth resolve operation.

class MTLTileRenderPipelineColorAttachmentDescriptorArray

An array of color attachment descriptors for the tile render pipeline.

class MTLRenderPassStencilAttachmentDescriptor

A stencil render target that serves as the output destination for stencil pixels generated by a render pass.

enum MTLMultisampleStencilResolveFilter

Constants used to control the multisample stencil resolve operation.

class MTLRenderPassSampleBufferAttachmentDescriptorArray

An array of sample buffer attachments for a render pass.

