

- IOBluetooth
-  IOBluetoothDevice 

Class

# IOBluetoothDevice

An instance of IOBluetoothDevice represents a single remote Bluetooth device.

macOS

``` source
class IOBluetoothDevice
```

## Overview

An IOBluetoothDevice object may exist independent of the existence of a baseband connection with the target device. Using this object, a client can request creation and destruction of baseband connections, and request the opening of L2CAP and RFCOMM channels on the remote device. Many of the other APIs in the IOBluetooth framework will return this object, or it’s C counterpart (IOBluetoothDeviceRef).

## Topics

### Initializers

convenience init!(address: UnsafePointer&lt;BluetoothDeviceAddress>!)

Returns the IOBluetoothDevice object for the given BluetoothDeviceAddress

convenience init!(addressString: String!)

Returns the IOBluetoothDevice object for the given BluetoothDeviceAddress

### Instance Properties

var addressString: String!

Get a string representation of the Bluetooth device address for the target device. The format of the string is the same as returned by IOBluetoothNSStringFromDeviceAddress().

var classOfDevice: BluetoothClassOfDevice

Gets the full class of device value for the remote device.

var connectionHandle: BluetoothConnectionHandle

Get the connection handle for the baseband connection.

var deviceClassMajor: BluetoothDeviceClassMajor

Get the major device class of the device.

var deviceClassMinor: BluetoothDeviceClassMinor

Get the minor service class of the device.

var isHandsFreeAudioGateway: Bool

var isHandsFreeDevice: Bool

var lastNameUpdate: Date!

Get the date/time of the last successful remote name request.

var name: String!

Get the human readable name of the remote device.

var nameOrAddress: String!

Get the human readable name of the remote device. If the name is not present, it will return a string containing the device’s address.

var serviceClassMajor: BluetoothServiceClassMajor

Get the major service class of the device.

var services: [Any]!

Gets an array of service records for the device.

### Instance Methods

func addToFavorites() -> IOReturn

Adds the target device to the user’s favorite devices list.

func awakeAfter(using: NSCoder!) -> Any!

func closeConnection() -> IOReturn

Close down the baseband connection to the device.

func getAddress() -> UnsafePointer&lt;BluetoothDeviceAddress>!

Get the Bluetooth device address for the target device.

func getClockOffset() -> BluetoothClockOffset

Get the clock offset value of the device.

func getEncryptionMode() -> BluetoothHCIEncryptionMode

Get the encryption mode for the baseband connection.

func getLastInquiryUpdate() -> Date!

Get the date/time of the last time the device was returned during an inquiry.

func getLastServicesUpdate() -> Date!

Get the date/time of the last SDP query.

func getLinkType() -> BluetoothLinkType

Get the link type for the baseband connection.

func getPageScanMode() -> BluetoothPageScanMode

Get the page scan mode for the device.

func getPageScanPeriodMode() -> BluetoothPageScanPeriodMode

Get the value of the page scan period mode for the device.

func getPageScanRepetitionMode() -> BluetoothPageScanRepetitionMode

Get the value of the page scan repetition mode for the device.

func getServiceRecord(for: IOBluetoothSDPUUID!) -> IOBluetoothSDPServiceRecord!

Search for a service record containing the given UUID.

func handsFreeAudioGatewayServiceRecord() -> IOBluetoothSDPServiceRecord!

func handsFreeDeviceServiceRecord() -> IOBluetoothSDPServiceRecord!

func isConnected() -> Bool

Indicates whether a baseband connection to the device exists.

func isFavorite() -> Bool

Reports whether the target device is a favorite for the user.

func isIncoming() -> Bool

Returns TRUE if the device connection was generated by the remote host.

func isPaired() -> Bool

Returns whether the target device is paired.

func openConnection() -> IOReturn

Create a baseband connection to the device.

func openConnection(Any!) -> IOReturn

Create a baseband connection to the device.

func openConnection(Any!, withPageTimeout: BluetoothHCIPageTimeout, authenticationRequired: Bool) -> IOReturn

Create a baseband connection to the device.

func openL2CAPChannelAsync(AutoreleasingUnsafeMutablePointer&lt;IOBluetoothL2CAPChannel?>!, withPSM: BluetoothL2CAPPSM, delegate: Any!) -> IOReturn

Opens a new L2CAP channel to the target device. Returns immediately after starting the opening process.

func openL2CAPChannelAsync(AutoreleasingUnsafeMutablePointer&lt;IOBluetoothL2CAPChannel?>!, withPSM: BluetoothL2CAPPSM, withConfiguration: [AnyHashable : Any]!, delegate: Any!) -> IOReturn

Opens a new L2CAP channel to the target device. Returns immediately after starting the opening process.

func openL2CAPChannelSync(AutoreleasingUnsafeMutablePointer&lt;IOBluetoothL2CAPChannel?>!, withPSM: BluetoothL2CAPPSM, delegate: Any!) -> IOReturn

Opens a new L2CAP channel to the target device. Returns only after the channel is opened.

func openL2CAPChannelSync(AutoreleasingUnsafeMutablePointer&lt;IOBluetoothL2CAPChannel?>!, withPSM: BluetoothL2CAPPSM, withConfiguration: [AnyHashable : Any]!, delegate: Any!) -> IOReturn

Opens a new L2CAP channel to the target device. Returns only after the channel is opened.

func openRFCOMMChannelAsync(AutoreleasingUnsafeMutablePointer&lt;IOBluetoothRFCOMMChannel?>!, withChannelID: BluetoothRFCOMMChannelID, delegate: Any!) -> IOReturn

Opens a new RFCOMM channel to the target device. Returns immediately.

func openRFCOMMChannelSync(AutoreleasingUnsafeMutablePointer&lt;IOBluetoothRFCOMMChannel?>!, withChannelID: BluetoothRFCOMMChannelID, delegate: Any!) -> IOReturn

Opens a new RFCOMM channel to the target device. Returns only once the channel is open or failed to open.

func performSDPQuery(Any!) -> IOReturn

Performs an SDP query on the target device.

func performSDPQuery(Any!, uuids: [Any]!) -> IOReturn

Performs an SDP query on the target device with the specified service UUIDs.

func rawRSSI() -> BluetoothHCIRSSIValue

Get the raw RSSI device (if connected).

func recentAccessDate() -> Date!

Returns the date/time of the most recent access of the target device.

func register(forDisconnectNotification: Any!, selector: Selector!) -> IOBluetoothUserNotification!

Allows a client to register for device disconnect notification.

func remoteNameRequest(Any!) -> IOReturn

Issues a remote name request to the target device.

func remoteNameRequest(Any!, withPageTimeout: BluetoothHCIPageTimeout) -> IOReturn

Issues a remote name request to the target device.

func removeFromFavorites() -> IOReturn

Removes the target device from the user’s favorite devices list.

func requestAuthentication() -> IOReturn

Requests that the existing baseband connection be authenticated.

func rssi() -> BluetoothHCIRSSIValue

Get the RSSI device (if connected), above or below the golden range. If the RSSI is within the golden range, a value of 0 is returned. For the actual RSSI value, use getRawRSSI. For more information, see the Bluetooth 4.0 Core Specification.

func sendL2CAPEchoRequest(UnsafeMutableRawPointer!, length: UInt16) -> IOReturn

Send an echo request over the L2CAP connection to a remote device.

func setSupervisionTimeout(UInt16) -> IOReturn

Sets the connection supervision timeout.

### Type Methods

class func favoriteDevices() -> [Any]!

Gets an array of the user’s favorite devices.

class func pairedDevices() -> [Any]!

Gets an array of all of the paired devices on the system.

class func recentDevices(UInt) -> [Any]!

Gets an array of recently used Bluetooth devices.

class func register(forConnectNotifications: Any!, selector: Selector!) -> IOBluetoothUserNotification!

Allows a client to register for device connect notifications for any connection.

## Relationships

### Inherits From

- IOBluetoothObject

### Conforms To

- CVarArg
- CustomDebugStringConvertible
- CustomStringConvertible
- Equatable
- Hashable
- NSCoding
- NSCopying
- NSObjectProtocol
- NSSecureCoding

## See Also

### Classes

class IOBluetoothDeviceInquiry

Object representing a device inquiry that finds Bluetooth devices in-range of the computer, and (optionally) retrieves name information for them.

class IOBluetoothDevicePair

An instance of IOBluetoothDevicePair represents a pairing attempt to a remote Bluetooth device.

class IOBluetoothDeviceRef

An object that represents a Bluetooth I/O device.

class IOBluetoothHandsFree

Hands free profile class.

class IOBluetoothHandsFreeAudioGateway

An object that sends data to a connected Bluetooth hands-free phone or headset and processes commands from it.

class IOBluetoothHandsFreeDevice

An object you use to manage phone calls on a connected Bluetooth hands-free phone or headset.

class IOBluetoothHostController

This class is a representation of a Bluetooth Host Controller Interface that is present on the local computer (either plugged in externally or available internally).

class IOBluetoothL2CAPChannel

An instance of IOBluetoothL2CAPChannel represents a single open L2CAP channel.

class IOBluetoothL2CAPChannelRef

class IOBluetoothOBEXSession

An OBEX Session with a Bluetooth RFCOMM channel as the transport.

class IOBluetoothObject

class IOBluetoothObjectRef

class IOBluetoothRFCOMMChannel

An instance of this class represents an RFCOMM channel as defined by the Bluetooth SDP spec..

class IOBluetoothRFCOMMChannelRef

class IOBluetoothSDPDataElement

An instance of this class represents a single SDP data element as defined by the Bluetooth SDP spec.

