

- Core ML
-  MLFeatureProvider 

Protocol

# MLFeatureProvider

An interface that represents a collection of values for either a model’s input or its output.

iOS 11.0+iPadOS 11.0+Mac Catalyst 13.1+macOS 10.13+tvOS 11.0+visionOS 1.0+watchOS 4.0+

``` source
protocol MLFeatureProvider
```

## Overview

Use `MLFeatureProvider` to customize the way your app gets data to and from your model when the model’s dynamically generated interface doesn’t meet your app’s needs.

Consider adopting this protocol in your data source if any of the following apply:

- Your data is collected asynchronously.

- Using the autogenerated interface leads to copying excessive amounts of data.

- Your data source is otherwise complicated.

The interface is mainly an accessor for MLFeatureValue instances, making it straightforward to implement. Adopting this protocol allows you to integrate your data directly with MLModel, which means the model can query your data sources without constructing a separate input instance.

To customize your app’s interaction with a model:

1.  Adopt the `MLFeatureProvider` protocol in a class or structure so that the model can query it for input feature values via featureValue(for:).

2.  Pass your app’s `MLFeatureProvider` to your `MLModel` with prediction(from:) or prediction(from:options:).

3.  Use the `MLFeatureProvider` returned from a `prediction(from:)` method to get the output feature values for that prediction.

## Topics

### Accessing Values

func featureValue(for: String) -> MLFeatureValue?

Accesses the feature value given the feature’s name.

**Required**

var featureNames: Set&lt;String>

The set of valid feature names.

**Required**

## Relationships

### Conforming Types

- MLDictionaryFeatureProvider

## See Also

### Model inputs and outputs

Making Predictions with a Sequence of Inputs

Integrate a recurrent neural network model to process sequences of inputs.

class MLFeatureValue

A generic wrapper around an underlying value and the value’s type.

struct MLSendableFeatureValue

A sendable feature value.

class MLDictionaryFeatureProvider

A convenience wrapper for the given dictionary of data.

protocol MLBatchProvider

An interface that represents a collection of feature providers.

class MLArrayBatchProvider

A convenience wrapper for batches of feature providers.

class MLModelAsset

An abstraction of a compiled Core ML model asset.

