

- RegexBuilder
-  NegativeLookahead 

Structure

# NegativeLookahead

A regex component that allows a match to continue only if its contents do not match at the given location.

iOS 16.0+iPadOS 16.0+Mac Catalyst 16.0+macOS 13.0+tvOS 16.0+visionOSwatchOS 9.0+

``` source
struct NegativeLookahead
```

## Overview

A negative lookahead is a zero-length assertion that its included regex does not match at a particular position. Lookaheads do not advance the overall matching position in the input string — once a lookahead succeeds, matching continues in the regex from the same position.

## Topics

### Initializers

init&lt;R>(R)

Creates a negative lookahead from the given regex component.

init&lt;R>(() -> R)

Creates a negative lookahead from the regex generated by the given builder closure.

### Instance Properties

var regex: Regex&lt;Output>

The regular expression represented by this component.

### Type Aliases

typealias RegexOutput

The output type for this regular expression.

## Relationships

### Conforms To

- Copyable

  Conforms when `Output` conforms to `Copyable` and `Escapable`.

- RegexComponent

  Conforms when `Output` conforms to `Copyable` and `Escapable`.

## See Also

### Components

struct CharacterClass

A class of characters that match in a regex.

struct Anchor

A regex component that matches a specific condition at a particular position in an input string.

struct Lookahead

A regex component that allows a match to continue only if its contents match at the given location.

struct ChoiceOf

A regex component that chooses exactly one of its constituent regex components when matching.

