

- Security
-  SecRequirementCreateWithStringAndErrors(\_:\_:\_:\_:) 

Function

# SecRequirementCreateWithStringAndErrors(\_:\_:\_:\_:)

Creates a code requirement object by compiling a valid text representation of a code requirement and returns detailed error information in the case of failure.

Mac Catalyst 13.0+macOS 10.0+

``` source
func SecRequirementCreateWithStringAndErrors(
    _ text: CFString,
    _ flags: SecCSFlags,
    _ errors: UnsafeMutablePointer?>?,
    _ requirement: UnsafeMutablePointer
) -> OSStatus
```

## Parameters 

`text`  

The text form of a code requirement.

`flags`  

Optional flags; see SecCSFlags for possible values. Pass kSecCSDefaultFlags for standard behavior.

`errors`  

On return, if the function call fails and returns a result code other than `errSecSuccess`, points to an error object further describing the nature and circumstances of the failure. Use the CFErrorCopyUserInfo(_:) function to retrieve the user info dictionary from the error object. See User Info Dictionary Error Keys for possible values. Pass `NULL` if you do not want this information. In Objective-C, call the CFRelease function to release this object when you are finished with it.

`requirement`  

On return, contains a code requirement object that implements the conditions described in the text.

## Return Value

A result code. See Code Signing Services Result Codes.

## Discussion

The advantage of this function over SecRequirementCreateWithString(_:_:_:) is that if there are any errors in the text string you pass in the `text` parameter, this function returns the syntax errors generated by the parser. These errors are in plain English and can be displayed to a user if it would be useful to do so. Code requirements and the code signing requirement language are documented in Code Signing Guide.

If you use the SecRequirementCreateWithStringAndErrors(_:_:_:_:) function to create a code requirement object from a text string and later use the SecRequirementCopyString(_:_:_:) function to convert the object back to a string, the reconstituted text may differ in formatting, contain different source comments, and perform its validation functions in different order from the original. However, it is guaranteed that that the reconstituted text is functionally identical to the original. That is, recompiling the text using SecRequirementCreateWithString(_:_:_:) will produce a code requirement object that behaves identically to the first one you created.

