

- QuickTime File Format
- Sound sample description version 1 ('stsd')
-  Bytes per frame 

Data field

# Bytes per frame

The number of bytes in a frame.

## Overview

For uncompressed audio, the number of bytes in an uncompressed frame; for compressed audio, the number of bytes in a compressed frame. This can be calculated by multiplying the bytes per packet field by the number of channels.

## See Also

### Data fields

Sample description size

A 32-bit integer indicating the number of bytes in the sample description.

Data format

A 32-bit integer indicating the format of the stored data.

Reserved

Six bytes.

Data reference index

A 16-bit integer that contains the index of the data reference to use to retrieve data associated with samples that use this sample description.

Version

A 16-bit integer that holds the sample description version.

Revision level

A 16-bit integer.

Vendor

A 32-bit integer.

Number of channels

A 16-bit integer that indicates the number of sound channels used by the sound sample.

Sample size

A 16-bit integer that specifies the number of bits in each uncompressed sound sample.

Compression ID

A 16-bit integer.

Packet size

A 16-bit integer.

Sample rate

A 32-bit unsigned fixed-point number (16.16) that indicates the rate at which the sound samples were obtained.

Samples per packet

The number of uncompressed frames generated by a compressed frame, where an uncompressed frame is one sample from each channel.

Bytes per packet

For uncompressed audio, the number of bytes in a sample for a single channel.

Bytes per sample

The size of an uncompressed sample in bytes.

