

- QuickTime File Format
- Sound sample description version 1 ('stsd')
-  Bytes per packet 

Data field

# Bytes per packet

For uncompressed audio, the number of bytes in a sample for a single channel.

## Overview

This replaces the older `sampleSize` field, which is set to `16`. This value is calculated by dividing the frame size by the number of channels. The same calculation is performed to calculate the value of this field for compressed audio, but the result of the calculation is not generally meaningful for compressed audio.

## See Also

### Data fields

Sample description size

A 32-bit integer indicating the number of bytes in the sample description.

Data format

A 32-bit integer indicating the format of the stored data.

Reserved

Six bytes.

Data reference index

A 16-bit integer that contains the index of the data reference to use to retrieve data associated with samples that use this sample description.

Version

A 16-bit integer that holds the sample description version.

Revision level

A 16-bit integer.

Vendor

A 32-bit integer.

Number of channels

A 16-bit integer that indicates the number of sound channels used by the sound sample.

Sample size

A 16-bit integer that specifies the number of bits in each uncompressed sound sample.

Compression ID

A 16-bit integer.

Packet size

A 16-bit integer.

Sample rate

A 32-bit unsigned fixed-point number (16.16) that indicates the rate at which the sound samples were obtained.

Samples per packet

The number of uncompressed frames generated by a compressed frame, where an uncompressed frame is one sample from each channel.

Bytes per frame

The number of bytes in a frame.

Bytes per sample

The size of an uncompressed sample in bytes.

