

- Exception Handling
- NSExceptionHandler
-  System Hang Constants 

API Collection

# System Hang Constants

Use one or more of the following constants in the parameter of setExceptionHangingMask(_:) to specify the types of exceptions that cause the exception to halt execution so a debugger can be attached.

## Overview

When exception-handling domains are nested, NSHangOnTopLevelExceptionMask deals with exceptions that would make it to the top two levels of exception handlers. In the main thread of a Cocoa application, the top-level handler is the global NSApplication instance.

## Topics

### Constants

var NSHangOnUncaughtExceptionMask: Int

The exception handler suspends execution when it detects an uncaught exception (other than a system exception or runtime error).

var NSHangOnUncaughtSystemExceptionMask: Int

The exception handler suspends execution when it detects an uncaught system exception.

var NSHangOnUncaughtRuntimeErrorMask: Int

The exception handler suspends execution when it detects an uncaught runtime error.

var NSHangOnTopLevelExceptionMask: Int

The exception handler suspends execution when it detects an exception that would be handled by the top-level handler.

var NSHangOnOtherExceptionMask: Int

The exception handler suspends execution when it detects an exception that would be handled by an object other than the top-level handler.

## See Also

### Constants

Logging and Handling Constants

Use one or more of the following constants in the parameter of setExceptionHandlingMask(_:) to specify the types of exceptions that the exception handler should monitor and whether it should handle or log them.

Exception Global String Constants

Two of the following global string constants identify exceptions generated by the framework for Objective-C runtime errors and system exceptions such as invalid memory accesses. The other constant is used as a key to access the stack trace in the userInfo dictionary of an NSException object, when requested.

