

- Exception Handling
- NSExceptionHandler
-  Logging and Handling Constants 

API Collection

# Logging and Handling Constants

Use one or more of the following constants in the parameter of setExceptionHandlingMask(_:) to specify the types of exceptions that the exception handler should monitor and whether it should handle or log them.

## Overview

When exception-handling domains are nested, NSLogTopLevelExceptionMask and NSHandleTopLevelExceptionMask deal with exceptions that would make it to the top two levels of exception handlers. In the main thread of a Cocoa application, the top-level handler is the global NSApplication instance.

## Topics

### Constants

var NSLogUncaughtExceptionMask: Int

The exception handler logs uncaught exceptions.

var NSHandleUncaughtExceptionMask: Int

The exception handler handles uncaught exceptions by terminating the thread in which they occur.

var NSLogUncaughtSystemExceptionMask: Int

The exception handler logs uncaught system exceptions.

var NSHandleUncaughtSystemExceptionMask: Int

The exception handler handles uncaught system exceptions by converting them to NSException objects containing a stack trace.

var NSLogUncaughtRuntimeErrorMask: Int

The exception handler logs uncaught runtime errors.

var NSHandleUncaughtRuntimeErrorMask: Int

The exception handler handles uncaught runtime errors by converting them to NSException objects containing a stack trace.

var NSLogTopLevelExceptionMask: Int

The exception handler logs exceptions that would be caught by the top-level handler.

var NSHandleTopLevelExceptionMask: Int

The exception handler handles exceptions caught by the top-level handler by converting them to NSException objects containing a stack trace.

var NSLogOtherExceptionMask: Int

The exception handler logs exceptions caught by handlers lower than the top-level handler.

var NSHandleOtherExceptionMask: Int

The exception handler handles exceptions caught by handlers lower than the top-level handler by converting them to NSException objects containing a stack trace.

## See Also

### Constants

System Hang Constants

Use one or more of the following constants in the parameter of setExceptionHangingMask(_:) to specify the types of exceptions that cause the exception to halt execution so a debugger can be attached.

Exception Global String Constants

Two of the following global string constants identify exceptions generated by the framework for Objective-C runtime errors and system exceptions such as invalid memory accesses. The other constant is used as a key to access the stack trace in the userInfo dictionary of an NSException object, when requested.

