

- ClassKit
-  CLSContext 

Class

# CLSContext

An area of your app that represents an assignable task, like a quiz or a chapter.

iOS 11.3+iPadOS 11.3+Mac Catalyst 11.3+macOS 11.0+visionOS 1.0+

``` source
class CLSContext
```

## Mentioned in 

Creating bookmarks and assignments from your app

Building missing contexts

## Overview

Make it easy for teachers to understand the app content a context represents by configuring it with information like a clear, concise title localized for the regions that your app supports.

A context can contain groups of other contexts, like a book that contains chapters or a chapter that contains sections. You can assemble contexts into a hierarchy of up to eight levels that acts as a table of contents for teachers who want to assign your app content. See Advertising your app’s assignable content for more details.

## Topics

### Creating contexts

init(type: CLSContextType, identifier: String, title: String)

Initializes a new context.

class CLSObject

The abstract base class for objects managed by ClassKit.

### Identifying the context

var identifier: String

A string that uniquely identifies a context among its siblings.

var title: String

The name of the context as it appears to users.

var summary: String?

An optional, user-visible description of the context.

var thumbnail: CGImage?

An optional thumbnail image associated with the context.

### Managing the context type

var type: CLSContextType

The kind of content a context represents.

func setType(CLSContextType)

Updates the kind of content that a context represents.

enum CLSContextType

The kinds of assignable content a context can contain.

var customTypeName: String?

An optional name that the system presents to the user if you choose the custom context type.

### Characterizing the context

var suggestedAge: NSRange

The range of ages, measured in years, for which you deem a context’s content suitable.

var suggestedCompletionTime: NSRange

A suggested time range to complete a task, measured in minutes.

var isAssignable: Bool

A Boolean that indicates whether teachers can assign the context as a task.

### Managing context presentation

var displayOrder: Int

The position of a context relative to its siblings.

var topic: CLSContextTopic?

The area of study to which a context relates.

struct CLSContextTopic

The areas of study to which contexts may relate.

### Indicating progress reporting capabilities

var progressReportingCapabilities: Set&lt;CLSProgressReportingCapability>

The kinds of progress reporting that the context can perform.

func addProgressReportingCapabilities(Set&lt;CLSProgressReportingCapability>)

Adds a progress reporting capability to the set of capabilities for the context.

func resetProgressReportingCapabilities()

Resets the set of capabilities for the context.

class CLSProgressReportingCapability

A progress reporting capability supported by a context.

### Activating and deactivating a context

Informing ClassKit that a task is about to begin

Activate and deactivate contexts according to user interaction.

func becomeActive()

Tells a context to become the active context.

func resignActive()

Tells a context to stop being the active context.

var isActive: Bool

A Boolean indicating whether the context is active.

### Creating activities

var currentActivity: CLSActivity?

The activity available for recording progress.

func createNewActivity() -> CLSActivity

Creates and returns a new activity instance for the context.

### Managing context hierarchy

var identifierPath: [String]

The identifier path that locates the context within the data store’s context hierarchy.

var parent: CLSContext?

The direct ancestor of this context.

func removeFromParent()

Removes the context from its parent.

func addChildContext(CLSContext)

Adds the specifed context as a child of the context receiving the method call.

func descendant(matchingIdentifierPath: [String], completion: (CLSContext?, (any Error)?) -> Void)

Finds the context with the given identifier path relative to this context.

### Creating a context presentation hierarchy

var navigationChildContexts: [CLSContext]

The child contexts that a user can navigate to from this context in the Schoolwork app.

func addNavigationChildContext(CLSContext)

Adds a child context that users can navigate to from this context.

func removeNavigationChildContext(CLSContext)

Removes the specified context as a presentable child of this context.

### Configuring deep links

Linking directly to assignments

Make it easy for teachers to guide students to specific content.

var universalLinkURL: URL?

A URL that leads to the content in your app associated with the current context.

var isClassKitDeepLink: Bool

A Boolean value that indicates whether a user activity represents a ClassKit context.

var contextIdentifierPath: [String]?

The identifier path associated with a user activity generated by an app that adopts ClassKit.

## Relationships

### Inherits From

- CLSObject

### Conforms To

- CVarArg
- CustomDebugStringConvertible
- CustomStringConvertible
- Equatable
- Hashable
- NSCoding
- NSObjectProtocol
- NSSecureCoding

## See Also

### Contexts

Advertising your app’s assignable content

Assemble a hierarchy of contexts and declare your app’s assignable content.

protocol CLSContextProvider

An interface used to tell your ClassKit context provider app extension to update contexts.

