

- UIKit
- UIFieldBehavior
-  turbulenceField(smoothness:animationSpeed:) 

Type Method

# turbulenceField(smoothness:animationSpeed:)

Creates and returns a field behavior object that applies noise to an item in motion.

iOS 9.0+iPadOS 9.0+Mac Catalyst 13.1+tvOS 9.0+visionOS 1.0+

``` source
@MainActor
class func turbulenceField(
    smoothness: CGFloat,
    animationSpeed speed: CGFloat
) -> Self
```

## Parameters 

`smoothness`  

The smoothness of the turbulence field. Specify a value between `0.0` and `1.0`, where `0.0` indicates the maximum amount of randomness in the generated field and `1.0` indicates the least amount of randomness.

`speed`  

The frequency at which the turbulence field changes, measured in Hertz (Hz). Specify `0.0` to create a turbulence field that does not change over time.

## Return Value

A field behavior object that applies turbulence to an item in motion.

## Discussion

The strength of the noise generated by this field is proportional to the velocity of the item in the field.

## See Also

### Getting the field behaviors

class func dragField() -> Self

Creates and returns a field behavior for slowing an object’s velocity.

class func springField() -> Self

Creates and returns a spring field behavior.

class func velocityField(direction: CGVector) -> Self

Creates and returns a field behavior object that applies a directional velocity to items.

class func electricField() -> Self

Creates and returns a field behavior object that interacts with charged items.

class func magneticField() -> Self

Creates and returns a field behavior that interacts with charged items.

class func radialGravityField(position: CGPoint) -> Self

Creates and returns a field behavior object that models a radial gravitational force.

class func linearGravityField(direction: CGVector) -> Self

Creates and returns a field behavior object that models a linear gravitational force.

class func vortexField() -> Self

Creates and returns a field behavior object that applies a rotational force relative to the field’s position.

class func noiseField(smoothness: CGFloat, animationSpeed: CGFloat) -> Self

Creates and returns a field behavior object that applies random noise to other forces.

class func field(evaluationBlock: (UIFieldBehavior, CGPoint, CGVector, CGFloat, CGFloat, TimeInterval) -> CGVector) -> Self

Creates and returns a field behavior object that applies an app-specified field to items.

