

- Video Toolbox
-  Frame processing 

API Collection

# Frame processing

An interface used to access a range of different video processing features.

## Overview

Each processor implementation is defined by a Configuration object, used to pass initialization and configuration parameters for the processor and a Parameter object which provides the parameters for each individual processing operation.

## Topics

### Frame processor

class VTFrameProcessor

A class that creates a new frame processor for the configured video effect.

class VTFrameProcessorFrame

An object that wraps video frames to send to the processor, as source, reference, or output frames.

protocol VTFrameProcessorConfiguration

A protocol that describes the configuration of a processor to use during a video processing session.

protocol VTFrameProcessorParameters

The base protocol for input and output processing parameters for a frame processor implementation.

### Frame rate conversion

class VTFrameRateConversionConfiguration

An object that enables the frame rate conversion on a frame processing session.

class VTFrameRateConversionParameters

An object that contains the required input and output parameters to run a frame rate conversion processor on a frame.

### Optical flow

class VTFrameProcessorOpticalFlow

A class to wrap bidirectional optical flow to send to the processor.

class VTOpticalFlowConfiguration

A configuration object that enables optical flow on a frame processing session.

class VTOpticalFlowParameters

An object that describes frame-level optical flow parameters.

### Motion blur

class VTMotionBlurConfiguration

A configuration object to enable motion blur on a frame processing session.

class VTMotionBlurParameters

This object contains both input and output parameters necessary to run the motion blur processor on a frame.

### Errors

struct VTFrameProcessorError

Error codes generated by a frame processor.

let VTFrameProcessorErrorDomain: String

The error domain of Video Toolbox errors.

