

- Combine
- Publishers
- Publishers.TryContainsWhere
-  share() 

Instance Method

# share()

Shares the output of an upstream publisher with multiple subscribers.

iOS 13.0+iPadOS 13.0+Mac Catalyst 13.0+macOS 10.15+tvOS 13.0+visionOS 1.0+watchOS 6.0+

``` source
func share() -> Publishers.Share
```

## Return Value

A class instance that shares elements received from its upstream to multiple subscribers.

## Discussion

The publisher returned by this operator supports multiple subscribers, all of whom receive unchanged elements and completion states from the upstream publisher.

Tip

Publishers.Share is effectively a combination of the Publishers.Multicast and PassthroughSubject publishers, with an implicit autoconnect().

The following example uses a sequence publisher as a counter to publish three random numbers, generated by a map(_:) operator. It uses a share() operator to share the same random number to each of two subscribers. This example uses a delay(for:tolerance:scheduler:options:) operator only to prevent the first subscriber from exhausting the sequence publisher immediately; an asynchronous publisher wouldn’t need this.

```
let pub = (1...3).publisher
    .delay(for: 1, scheduler: DispatchQueue.main)
    .map( { _ in return Int.random(in: 0...100) } )
    .print("Random")
    .share()

cancellable1 = pub
    .sink { print ("Stream 1 received: \($0)")}
cancellable2 = pub
    .sink { print ("Stream 2 received: \($0)")}

// Prints:
// Random: receive value: (20)
// Stream 1 received: 20
// Stream 2 received: 20
// Random: receive value: (85)
// Stream 1 received: 85
// Stream 2 received: 85
// Random: receive value: (98)
// Stream 1 received: 98
// Stream 2 received: 98
```

Without the share() operator, stream 1 receives three random values, followed by stream 2 receiving three different random values.

Also note that Publishers.Share is a class rather than a structure like most other publishers. This means you can use this operator to create a publisher instance that uses reference semantics.

## See Also

### Working with Multiple Subscribers

func multicast&lt;S>(() -> S) -> Publishers.Multicast&lt;Self, S>

Applies a closure to create a subject that delivers elements to subscribers.

func multicast&lt;S>(subject: S) -> Publishers.Multicast&lt;Self, S>

Provides a subject to deliver elements to multiple subscribers.

