

- Safari Release Notes
-  Safari 16 Release Notes 

Article

# Safari 16 Release Notes

Released September 12, 2022 — Version 16 (18614.1.25)

## Overview

Safari 16 ships with iOS 16, and is available as an update on macOS Monterey and macOS Big Sur.

### CSS

#### New Features

- Added size queries support for Container Queries.

- Added support for Container Query Units.

- Added support for Subgrid.

- Added support for animatable Grids.

- Added support for Offset Path.

- Added support for Overscroll Behavior.

- Added support for `text-align-last`.

- Added support for the `resolution` media query.

#### Resolved Issues

- Fixed gradient color interpolation with alpha.

### Forms

#### New Features

- Added support for `.requestSubmit()`.

- Added the `showPicker()` method for HTML input elements.

#### Resolved Issues

- Fixed firing the load event after a form is submitted with a `"_blank"` target.

- Fixed `contenteditable` anchors getting stuck with an `:active` state.

- Fixed changing the value for `stepUp()` and `stepDown()` with out-of-range values.

- Fixed using `min` as the default value when `min` is greater than `max` for ``.

- Fixed making value updates visible for ``.

- Fixed making sure `:active` is removed on `keyup` event for radio inputs.

- Fixed `applyStep()` behavior to align with specifications.

- Fixed the `select()` method returns to align with the specifications.

- Fixed form data generated by `` when a `value` attribute is present.

- Fixed the `FormData` object to not include an entry for the submit button used to submit the form.

- Fixed invalid floating-point numbers that end with a “.” returning an empty string.

- Fixed selection range after the `type` attribute of an `` changes.

- Fixed selection range to be limited by the length of the current value.

- Fixed the user-agent stylesheet to include `table { text-indent: initial }` to align with specifications.

- Fixed the user-agent stylesheet to include `box-sizing: border-box` for `.`

- Fixed the `line-height` declaration to use `!important` for the placeholder of an input.

#### Removed Features

- Removed most non-standard CSS `appearance` values.

### Accessibility

#### New Features

- Added accessibility support for `display:contents`.

- Added Isolated Tree Mode to reduce VoiceOver hangs in WebKit by offloading accessibility work to a secondary thread.

### Apple Pay

#### New Features

- Added support for allowing scripts to be injected into `WKWebView` that have used Apple Pay (and vice versa).

- Added support for recurring payments, automatic reload payments, and multimerchant payments.

- Added a way for merchants to provide order details that are surfaced in the Wallet app after payments are authorized.

### Authentication

#### New Features

- Added support for passkeys on iOS 16.

### Media

#### New Features

- Added support for non-animated AVIF.

### Safari Web Extensions

#### New Features

- Added support for Safari Web Inspector Extensions.

- Added the ability to open a Safari Web Extension popover programmatically.

- Added the ability to sync enabled extension state and selected start page across iOS, iPadOS, and macOS.

- Added support for `declarativeNetRequestWithHostAccess` permission.

- Added support for `browser.runtime.getFrameID`.

#### Resolved Issues

- Fixed incorrect counts being returned from `getBytesInUse`.

- Fixed background service worker to load bundle resources.

- Extensions that request the unlimitedStorage permission no longer also need the `storage` permission.

- Updated the maximum number of static rulesets to 50 and the maximum number of enabled static rulesets to 10.

- Service workers are no longer returned from `extension.getBackgroundPage` and `extension.getViews`.

### Security

#### New Features

- Added support for the `worker-src` Content Security Policy directive.

#### Resolved Issues

- Fixed blocking image content in object elements.

- Fixed incorrect CORP/COEP check in 304 responses.

- Fixed mixing `strict-dynamic` and `unsafe-inline` policies.

- Fixed `script-src-elem` policies in Workers.

- Fixed incorrect `blocked-uri` for inline scripts and `strict-dynamic` policies.

### WebGL 2

#### Resolved Issues

- Fixed handling `AllowShared` `TypedArray`.

### Web Animations

#### New Features

- Added support for composite operations.

### Web API

#### New Features

- Added support for Shared Workers.

- Added support for Shadow Realms.

### Web Driver

#### Resolved Issues

- Fixed `pointerMove` actions to correctly fire mouse events.

### Web Inspector

#### New Features

- Added support for inspecting Flexbox layouts.

- Added support for Container Queries in the Styles sidebar.

- Added a way to entirely block network requests.

- Added support for allowing request local overrides to use regular expression matches in the redirect URL, and response local overrides to be mapped to a file on disk.

- Added an experimental Screenshots timeline that periodically captures screenshots of the viewport.

- Added links to reference documentation in the Timelines tab.

- Added a proxy indicator in the Network tab.

#### Resolved Issues

- Fixed breakpoints not triggering, breakpoints occurring at incorrect locations in scripts, and incorrect error, stack trace line, and column numbers when inspecting minified sources with multi-line strings.

- Fixed importing Timelines sometimes not scrolling.

- Fixed importing Audits sometimes crashing.

- Fixed CSS autocomplete to suggest the most commonly-used property, not the alphabetical one.

## See Also

### Version 16

Safari 16.6 Release Notes

Released July 24, 2023 — Version 16.6 (18615.3.12)

Safari 16.5 Release Notes

Released May 18, 2023 — Version 16.5 (18615.2.9)

Safari 16.4 Release Notes

Released March 27, 2023 — Version 16.4 (18615.1.26)

Safari 16.3 Release Notes

Released January 23, 2023 — Version 16.3 (18614.4.6)

Safari 16.2 Release Notes

Released December 13, 2022 — Version 16.2 (18614.3.7)

Safari 16.1 Release Notes

Released October 24, 2022 — Version 16.1 (18614.2.9)

