

- Foundation
- Progress
-  setUserInfoObject(\_:forKey:) 

Instance Method

# setUserInfoObject(\_:forKey:)

Sets a value in the user info dictionary.

iOS 7.0+iPadOS 7.0+Mac Catalyst 13.1+macOS 10.9+tvOS 9.0+visionOS 1.0+watchOS 2.0+

``` source
func setUserInfoObject(
    _ objectOrNil: Any?,
    forKey key: ProgressUserInfoKey
)
```

## Parameters 

`objectOrNil`  

The object to set for the specified key, or `nil` to remove an existing entry in the dictionary.

`key`  

The key for storing the specified object.

## Discussion

Use this method to set a value in the userInfo dictionary, with appropriate KVO notification for properties with values that can depend on values in the user info dictionary, like localizedDescription.

Supply a value of `nil` to remove an existing dictionary entry for a specified key.

## See Also

### Inspecting Progress Information

var kind: ProgressKind?

An object that represents the kind of progress for the progress object.

var estimatedTimeRemaining: TimeInterval?

A value that indicates the estimated amount of time remaining to complete the progress.

var throughput: Int?

A value that represents the speed of data processing, in bytes per second.

var userInfo: [ProgressUserInfoKey : Any]

A dictionary of arbitrary values for the receiver.

struct ProgressKind

An object that represents the kind of progress.

struct ProgressUserInfoKey

Keys for the user info dictionary that affect the autogenerated localized additional description string.

