

- Foundation
- NSMetadataQuery
-  value(ofAttribute:forResultAt:) 

Instance Method

# value(ofAttribute:forResultAt:)

Returns the value for the attribute name `attrName` at the index in the results specified by `idx`.

iOS 5.0+iPadOS 5.0+Mac Catalyst 13.1+macOS 10.4+tvOS 9.0+visionOS 1.0+watchOS 2.0+

``` source
func value(
    ofAttribute attrName: String,
    forResultAt idx: Int
) -> Any?
```

## Parameters 

`attrName`  

The attribute of the result object at `idx` being inquired about. The attribute must be specified in valueListAttributes, as a sorting key in a specified sort descriptor, or as one of the grouping attributes specified set for the query.

`idx`  

The index of the desired return object in the query results array.

## Return Value

Value for `attrName` in the result object at `idx` in the query result array.

## See Also

### Getting Query Results

var results: [Any]

An array containing the query’s results.

var resultCount: Int

The number of results returned by the query. (read-only)

func result(at: Int) -> Any

Returns the query result at a specific index.

func index(ofResult: Any) -> Int

Returns the index of a query result object in the receiver’s results array.

var groupedResults: [NSMetadataQueryResultGroup]

An array containing hierarchical groups of query results. (read-only)

class NSMetadataQueryResultGroup

The `NSMetadataQueryResultGroup` class represents a collection of grouped attribute results returned by an NSMetadataQuery object.

func enumerateResults((Any, Int, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;ObjCBool>) -> Void)

Enumerates the current set of results using the given block.

func enumerateResults(options: NSEnumerationOptions, using: (Any, Int, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;ObjCBool>) -> Void)

Enumerates the current set of results using the given options and block.

var valueLists: [String : [NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple]]

A dictionary containing the value lists generated by the query.

class NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple

The `NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple` class represents attribute-value tuples, which are objects that contain the attribute name and value of a metadata attribute.

func enableUpdates()

Enables updates to the query results.

func disableUpdates()

Disables updates to the query results.

var operationQueue: OperationQueue?

The queue on which query result notifications are posted.

