

- Foundation
-  NSMetadataQueryResultGroup 

Class

# NSMetadataQueryResultGroup

The `NSMetadataQueryResultGroup` class represents a collection of grouped attribute results returned by an NSMetadataQuery object.

iOS 5.0+iPadOS 5.0+Mac Catalyst 13.1+macOS 10.4+tvOS 9.0+visionOS 1.0+watchOS 2.0+

``` source
class NSMetadataQueryResultGroup
```

## Topics

### Getting Query Results

var attribute: String

The result group’s attribute name.

var value: Any

The result group’s value.

var results: [Any]

An array containing the result group’s result objects.

var resultCount: Int

The number of results returned by the result group.

func result(at: Int) -> Any

Returns the query result at a specific index.

var subgroups: [NSMetadataQueryResultGroup]?

An array containing the result group’s subgroups.

## Relationships

### Inherits From

- NSObject

### Conforms To

- CVarArg
- CustomDebugStringConvertible
- CustomStringConvertible
- Equatable
- Hashable
- NSObjectProtocol

## See Also

### Getting Query Results

var results: [Any]

An array containing the query’s results.

var resultCount: Int

The number of results returned by the query. (read-only)

func result(at: Int) -> Any

Returns the query result at a specific index.

func index(ofResult: Any) -> Int

Returns the index of a query result object in the receiver’s results array.

var groupedResults: [NSMetadataQueryResultGroup]

An array containing hierarchical groups of query results. (read-only)

func enumerateResults((Any, Int, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;ObjCBool>) -> Void)

Enumerates the current set of results using the given block.

func enumerateResults(options: NSEnumerationOptions, using: (Any, Int, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;ObjCBool>) -> Void)

Enumerates the current set of results using the given options and block.

var valueLists: [String : [NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple]]

A dictionary containing the value lists generated by the query.

class NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple

The `NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple` class represents attribute-value tuples, which are objects that contain the attribute name and value of a metadata attribute.

func value(ofAttribute: String, forResultAt: Int) -> Any?

Returns the value for the attribute name `attrName` at the index in the results specified by `idx`.

func enableUpdates()

Enables updates to the query results.

func disableUpdates()

Disables updates to the query results.

var operationQueue: OperationQueue?

The queue on which query result notifications are posted.

