

- Foundation
-  ProgressKind 

Structure

# ProgressKind

An object that represents the kind of progress.

iOS 2.0+iPadOS 2.0+Mac Catalyst 13.0+macOS 10.0+tvOS 9.0+visionOS 1.0+watchOS 2.0+

``` source
struct ProgressKind
```

## Discussion

When tracking file operations with the progress kind set to file, provide a value for the fileOperationKindKey in the user info dictionary.

To specify the kind of file operation, provide one of the following values:

- copying

- decompressingAfterDownloading

- downloading

- uploading

- receiving

## Topics

### Creating Kinds of Progress

init(String)

Creates a new kind of progress using the specified string.

init(rawValue: String)

### Recognizing Kinds of Progress

static let file: ProgressKind

The value that indicates that the progress is tracking a file operation.

## Relationships

### Conforms To

- Equatable
- Hashable
- RawRepresentable
- Sendable

## See Also

### Inspecting Progress Information

var kind: ProgressKind?

An object that represents the kind of progress for the progress object.

var estimatedTimeRemaining: TimeInterval?

A value that indicates the estimated amount of time remaining to complete the progress.

var throughput: Int?

A value that represents the speed of data processing, in bytes per second.

func setUserInfoObject(Any?, forKey: ProgressUserInfoKey)

Sets a value in the user info dictionary.

var userInfo: [ProgressUserInfoKey : Any]

A dictionary of arbitrary values for the receiver.

struct ProgressUserInfoKey

Keys for the user info dictionary that affect the autogenerated localized additional description string.

