

- Foundation
-  File System 

API Collection

# File System

Create, read, write, and examine files and folders in the file system.

## Topics

### File system operations

Improving performance and stability when accessing the file system

Prevent data loss and app crashes by interacting with the file system in a coordinated, asynchronous manner and by avoiding unnecessary disk I/O.

class FileManager

A convenient interface to the contents of the file system, and the primary means of interacting with it.

protocol FileManagerDelegate

The interface a file manager’s delegate uses to intervene during operations or if an error occurs.

About Apple File System

Use high-level APIs to get the most out of Apple File System.

### Coordinated file access

protocol NSFilePresenter

The interface a file coordinator uses to inform an object presenting a file about changes to that file made elsewhere in the system.

class NSFileAccessIntent

The details of a coordinated-read or coordinated-write operation.

class NSFileCoordinator

An object that coordinates the reading and writing of files and directories among file presenters.

### Managed file access

class FileHandle

An object-oriented wrapper for a file descriptor.

class NSFileSecurity

A stub class that encapsulates security information about a file.

class NSFileVersion

A snapshot of a file at a specific point in time.

class FileWrapper

A representation of a node (a file, directory, or symbolic link) in the file system.

### Errors

File System Error Codes

Recognize common error codes generated by file system operations.

## See Also

### Files and Data Persistence

Archives and Serialization

Convert objects and values to and from property list, JSON, and other flat binary representations.

Preferences

Persistently store domain-scoped pieces of information for configuring your app.

Spotlight

Search for files and other items on the local device, and index your app’s content for searching.

iCloud

Manage files and key-value data that automatically synchronize among a user’s iCloud devices.

Optimizing Your App’s Data for iCloud Backup

Minimize the space and time that backups take to create by excluding purgeable and nonpurgeable data from backups.

