

- Foundation
-  NotificationCenter 

Class

# NotificationCenter

A notification dispatch mechanism that enables the broadcast of information to registered observers.

iOS 2.0+iPadOS 2.0+Mac Catalyst 13.0+macOS 10.0+tvOS 9.0+visionOS 1.0+watchOS 2.0+

``` source
class NotificationCenter
```

## Overview

Objects register with a notification center to receive notifications (NSNotification objects) using the addObserver(_:selector:name:object:) or addObserver(forName:object:queue:using:) methods. When an object adds itself as an observer, it specifies which notifications it should receive. An object may therefore call this method several times in order to register itself as an observer for several different notifications.

Each running app has a default notification center, and you can create new notification centers to organize communications in particular contexts.

A notification center can deliver notifications only within a single program; if you want to post a notification to other processes or receive notifications from other processes, use DistributedNotificationCenter instead.

## Topics

### Getting the Default Notification Center

class var `default`: NotificationCenter

The app’s default notification center.

### Adding and Removing Notification Observers

func addObserver(forName: NSNotification.Name?, object: Any?, queue: OperationQueue?, using: (Notification) -> Void) -> any NSObjectProtocol

Adds an entry to the notification center to receive notifications that passed to the provided block.

func addObserver(Any, selector: Selector, name: NSNotification.Name?, object: Any?)

Adds an entry to the notification center to call the provided selector with the notification.

func removeObserver(Any, name: NSNotification.Name?, object: Any?)

Removes matching entries from the notification center’s dispatch table.

func removeObserver(Any)

Removes all entries specifying an observer from the notification center’s dispatch table.

### Posting Notifications

func post(Notification)

Posts a given notification to the notification center.

func post(name: NSNotification.Name, object: Any?, userInfo: [AnyHashable : Any]?)

Creates a notification with a given name, sender, and information and posts it to the notification center.

func post(name: NSNotification.Name, object: Any?)

Creates a notification with a given name and sender and posts it to the notification center.

### Receiving Notifications as an Asynchronous Sequence

func notifications(named: Notification.Name, object: (any AnyObject &amp; Sendable)?) -> NotificationCenter.Notifications

Returns an asynchronous sequence of notifications produced by this center for a given notification name and optional source object.

class Notifications

An asynchronous sequence of notifications generated by a notification center.

### Receiving Notifications as a Combine Publisher

func publisher(for: Notification.Name, object: AnyObject?) -> NotificationCenter.Publisher

Returns a publisher that emits events when broadcasting notifications.

struct Publisher

A publisher that emits elements when broadcasting notifications.

## Relationships

### Inherits From

- NSObject

### Inherited By

- DistributedNotificationCenter

### Conforms To

- CVarArg
- CustomDebugStringConvertible
- CustomStringConvertible
- Equatable
- Hashable
- NSObjectProtocol
- Sendable

## See Also

### Notifications

struct Notification

A container for information broadcast through a notification center to all registered observers.

class NotificationQueue

A notification center buffer.

