

- Foundation
- NSMetadataQuery
-  enumerateResults(\_:) 

Instance Method

# enumerateResults(\_:)

Enumerates the current set of results using the given block.

iOS 7.0+iPadOS 7.0+Mac Catalyst 13.1+macOS 10.9+tvOS 9.0+visionOS 1.0+watchOS 2.0+

``` source
func enumerateResults(_ block: (Any, Int, UnsafeMutablePointer) -> Void)
```

## Parameters 

`block`  

The block to execute for each current result.

## Discussion

This method disables the query at the start of the iteration and reenables it upon completion. Use enumerateResults(options:using:) if you want to use concurrent or reverse iteration.

## See Also

### Getting Query Results

var results: [Any]

An array containing the query’s results.

var resultCount: Int

The number of results returned by the query. (read-only)

func result(at: Int) -> Any

Returns the query result at a specific index.

func index(ofResult: Any) -> Int

Returns the index of a query result object in the receiver’s results array.

var groupedResults: [NSMetadataQueryResultGroup]

An array containing hierarchical groups of query results. (read-only)

class NSMetadataQueryResultGroup

The `NSMetadataQueryResultGroup` class represents a collection of grouped attribute results returned by an NSMetadataQuery object.

func enumerateResults(options: NSEnumerationOptions, using: (Any, Int, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;ObjCBool>) -> Void)

Enumerates the current set of results using the given options and block.

var valueLists: [String : [NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple]]

A dictionary containing the value lists generated by the query.

class NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple

The `NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple` class represents attribute-value tuples, which are objects that contain the attribute name and value of a metadata attribute.

func value(ofAttribute: String, forResultAt: Int) -> Any?

Returns the value for the attribute name `attrName` at the index in the results specified by `idx`.

func enableUpdates()

Enables updates to the query results.

func disableUpdates()

Disables updates to the query results.

var operationQueue: OperationQueue?

The queue on which query result notifications are posted.

