

- Foundation
- NSMetadataQuery
-  valueListAttributes 

Instance Property

# valueListAttributes

An array of attributes whose values are gathered by the query.

iOS 5.0+iPadOS 5.0+Mac Catalyst 13.1+macOS 10.4+tvOS 9.0+visionOS 1.0+watchOS 2.0+

``` source
var valueListAttributes: [String] { get set }
```

## Discussion

The query collects the values of these attributes into uniqued lists that can be used to summarize the results of the query. If `attributes` is `nil`, the query generates no value lists. Note that value list collection increases CPU usage and significantly increases the memory usage of an `NSMetadataQuery` object.

Setting this property while a query is running stops the query and discards the current results. The receiver immediately starts a new query.

For a list of valid attributes, see Attribute Keys and Cloud Storage Keys in NSMetadataItem.

## See Also

### Related Documentation

var valueLists: [String : [NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple]]

A dictionary containing the value lists generated by the query.

### Configuring Queries

var searchScopes: [Any]

An array containing the search scopes.

var predicate: NSPredicate?

The predicate used to filter query results.

var sortDescriptors: [NSSortDescriptor]

An array of sort descriptor objects.

var groupingAttributes: [String]?

An array of grouping attributes. (read-only)

var notificationBatchingInterval: TimeInterval

The interval at which notification of updated results occurs.

var delegate: (any NSMetadataQueryDelegate)?

The query’s delegate.

var searchItems: [Any]?

An array of objects that define the query’s scope.

