

- Foundation
-  NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple 

Class

# NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple

The `NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple` class represents attribute-value tuples, which are objects that contain the attribute name and value of a metadata attribute.

iOS 5.0+iPadOS 5.0+Mac Catalyst 13.1+macOS 10.4+tvOS 9.0+visionOS 1.0+watchOS 2.0+

``` source
class NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple
```

## Overview

Attribute-value tuples are returned by `NSMetadataQuery` objects as the results in the value lists. Each attribute/value tuple contains the attribute name, the value, and the number of instances of that value that exist for the attribute name.

## Topics

### Getting Query Attribute/Value Information

var attribute: String

The attribute name for the tuple’s value.

var count: Int

The number of instances of the value for the tuple’s attribute.

var value: Any?

The value of the tuple’s attribute.

## Relationships

### Inherits From

- NSObject

### Conforms To

- CVarArg
- CustomDebugStringConvertible
- CustomStringConvertible
- Equatable
- Hashable
- NSObjectProtocol

## See Also

### Getting Query Results

var results: [Any]

An array containing the query’s results.

var resultCount: Int

The number of results returned by the query. (read-only)

func result(at: Int) -> Any

Returns the query result at a specific index.

func index(ofResult: Any) -> Int

Returns the index of a query result object in the receiver’s results array.

var groupedResults: [NSMetadataQueryResultGroup]

An array containing hierarchical groups of query results. (read-only)

class NSMetadataQueryResultGroup

The `NSMetadataQueryResultGroup` class represents a collection of grouped attribute results returned by an NSMetadataQuery object.

func enumerateResults((Any, Int, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;ObjCBool>) -> Void)

Enumerates the current set of results using the given block.

func enumerateResults(options: NSEnumerationOptions, using: (Any, Int, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;ObjCBool>) -> Void)

Enumerates the current set of results using the given options and block.

var valueLists: [String : [NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple]]

A dictionary containing the value lists generated by the query.

func value(ofAttribute: String, forResultAt: Int) -> Any?

Returns the value for the attribute name `attrName` at the index in the results specified by `idx`.

func enableUpdates()

Enables updates to the query results.

func disableUpdates()

Disables updates to the query results.

var operationQueue: OperationQueue?

The queue on which query result notifications are posted.

