

- Foundation
- File System
-  File System Error Codes 

API Collection

# File System Error Codes

Recognize common error codes generated by file system operations.

## Topics

### Error Codes

var NSFileNoSuchFileError: Int

A filesystem operation was attempted on a non-existent file.

var NSFileLockingError: Int

The file could not be locked.

var NSFileReadUnknownError: Int

Could not read, for unknown reasons.

var NSFileReadNoPermissionError: Int

Could not read because of a permission problem.

var NSFileReadInvalidFileNameError: Int

Could not read because of an invalid file name.

var NSFileReadCorruptFileError: Int

Could not read because of a corrupted file, bad format, or similar reason.

var NSFileReadNoSuchFileError: Int

Could not read because no such file was found.

var NSFileReadInapplicableStringEncodingError: Int

Could not read because the string encoding wasn’t applicable.

var NSFileReadUnsupportedSchemeError: Int

Could not read because the specified URL scheme is unsupported.

var NSFileReadTooLargeError: Int

Could not read because the specified file was too large.

var NSFileReadUnknownStringEncodingError: Int

Could not read because the string coding of the file couldn’t be determined.

var NSFileWriteUnknownError: Int

Could not write, for unknown reasons.

var NSFileWriteNoPermissionError: Int

Could not write because of a permission problem.

var NSFileWriteInvalidFileNameError: Int

Could not write because of an invalid file name.

var NSFileWriteFileExistsError: Int

Could not perform an operation because the destination file already exists.

var NSFileWriteInapplicableStringEncodingError: Int

Could not write because the string encoding was not applicable.

var NSFileWriteUnsupportedSchemeError: Int

Could not write because the specified URL scheme is unsupported.

var NSFileWriteOutOfSpaceError: Int

Could not write because of a lack of disk space.

var NSFileWriteVolumeReadOnlyError: Int

Could not write because the volume is read-only.

var NSFileManagerUnmountBusyError: Int

The volume couldn’t be unmounted because it’s in use.

var NSFileManagerUnmountUnknownError: Int

The volume couldn’t be unmounted, for unknown reasons.

var NSFileErrorMinimum: Int

The start of the range of error codes reserved for file errors.

var NSFileErrorMaximum: Int

The end of the range of error codes reserved for file errors.

