

- Foundation
- NSMetadataQuery
-  result(at:) 

Instance Method

# result(at:)

Returns the query result at a specific index.

iOS 5.0+iPadOS 5.0+Mac Catalyst 13.1+macOS 10.4+tvOS 9.0+visionOS 1.0+watchOS 2.0+

``` source
func result(at idx: Int) -> Any
```

## Parameters 

`idx`  

The index of the desired result in the query result array.

## Return Value

The query result at the position specified by `idx`. By default, this method returns an NSMetadataItem object representing the requested result; however, the query’s delegate can substitute this object with an instance of a different class.

## Discussion

For performance reasons, use this method when retrieving a specific result, rather than the array returned by results.

## See Also

### Related Documentation

func metadataQuery(NSMetadataQuery, replacementObjectForResultObject: NSMetadataItem) -> Any

Returns a different object for a given query result object.

### Getting Query Results

var results: [Any]

An array containing the query’s results.

var resultCount: Int

The number of results returned by the query. (read-only)

func index(ofResult: Any) -> Int

Returns the index of a query result object in the receiver’s results array.

var groupedResults: [NSMetadataQueryResultGroup]

An array containing hierarchical groups of query results. (read-only)

class NSMetadataQueryResultGroup

The `NSMetadataQueryResultGroup` class represents a collection of grouped attribute results returned by an NSMetadataQuery object.

func enumerateResults((Any, Int, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;ObjCBool>) -> Void)

Enumerates the current set of results using the given block.

func enumerateResults(options: NSEnumerationOptions, using: (Any, Int, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;ObjCBool>) -> Void)

Enumerates the current set of results using the given options and block.

var valueLists: [String : [NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple]]

A dictionary containing the value lists generated by the query.

class NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple

The `NSMetadataQueryAttributeValueTuple` class represents attribute-value tuples, which are objects that contain the attribute name and value of a metadata attribute.

func value(ofAttribute: String, forResultAt: Int) -> Any?

Returns the value for the attribute name `attrName` at the index in the results specified by `idx`.

func enableUpdates()

Enables updates to the query results.

func disableUpdates()

Disables updates to the query results.

var operationQueue: OperationQueue?

The queue on which query result notifications are posted.

