

- Core Services
- Launch Services
- Deprecated Symbols
-  LSOpenItemsWithRole(\_:\_:\_:\_:\_:\_:\_:) Deprecated

Function

# LSOpenItemsWithRole(\_:\_:\_:\_:\_:\_:\_:)

Opens items with an array of file-system references with a specified role.

macOS 10.4–10.10Deprecated

``` source
func LSOpenItemsWithRole(
    _ inItems: UnsafePointer!,
    _ inItemCount: CFIndex,
    _ inRole: LSRolesMask,
    _ inAEParam: UnsafePointer!,
    _ inAppParams: UnsafePointer!,
    _ outPSNs: UnsafeMutablePointer!,
    _ inMaxPSNCount: CFIndex
) -> OSStatus
```

## Parameters 

`inItems`  

An array of values of type `FSRef`.

`inItemCount`  

The number of items specified in `inItems`.

`inRole`  

A value of type `LSRolesMask` specifying one or more roles. If the role doesn’t matter, use `kLSRolesAll`. For possible values, see LSRolesMask. If the `inAppParams` parameter is not `NULL`, this parameter is ignored.

`inAEParam`  

An `AEKeyDesc` that is to be attached to the Apple Event(s) generated by Launch Services with the specified `AEKeyword`. This parameter can be `NULL`.

`inAppParams`  

An LSApplicationParameters structure specifying the application to launch and its launch parameters, in which case the `inRole` parameter is ignored. This parameter can be `NULL`, in which case an application is selected that can handle each input item in at least one of the roles specified by the `inRole` parameter.

`outPSNs`  

On input, a pointer to a caller-allocated buffer or `NULL` if you don’t want to receive process serial number (PSN) information. If not `NULL` on input, on return, the buffer contains at each index the PSN that was used to open the item at the same index of the input item array (`inItems`).

`inMaxPSNCount`  

The maximum number of PSNs that the buffer pointed to by `outPSNs` can hold.

## Return Value

A result code; see Result Codes.

## Discussion

This function opens the specified items with the specified role. You can optionally specify the application and launch parameters in the `inAppParams` parameter. If an application is specified in the `inAppParams` parameter, the `inRole` parameter is ignored and the application is launched (if necessary).

Each application (regardless of whether it is launched or already running) receives an `'odoc'` Apple Event specifying the items that are to be opened.

If the `inItems` array contains any applications, this function launches them only if the `kLSRolesShell` bit is set in the `inRoles` parameter to indicate that the operating system should use the application itself as the execution shell of the new process.

If not `NULL`, the `outPSNs` buffer is filled with the PSN that was used to open each item at the same index of the `inItems` array. The PSN capacity of the output buffer is specified by `inMaxPSNCount`.

### Version-Notes

Thread-safe since OS X v10.4.

## See Also

### Deprecated Functions

func LSGetHandlerOptionsForContentType(CFString!) -> LSHandlerOptions

Gets the handler options for the specified content type.

Deprecated

func LSSetHandlerOptionsForContentType(CFString!, LSHandlerOptions) -> OSStatus

Sets the handler option for the specified content type.

Deprecated

func LSCopyAllHandlersForURLScheme(CFString) -> Unmanaged&lt;CFArray>?

Locates app bundle identifiers for apps capable of handling the specified URL scheme.

Deprecated

func LSCopyDefaultHandlerForURLScheme(CFString) -> Unmanaged&lt;CFString>?

Returns the bundle identifier of the user’s preferred default handler for the specified URL scheme.

Deprecated

func LSGetApplicationForItem(UnsafePointer&lt;FSRef>!, LSRolesMask, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;FSRef>!, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;Unmanaged&lt;CFURL>?>!) -> OSStatus

Locates the preferred app for opening an item with a file-system reference.

Deprecated

func LSGetApplicationForURL(CFURL!, LSRolesMask, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;FSRef>!, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;Unmanaged&lt;CFURL>?>!) -> OSStatus

Locates the preferred app for opening an item with a URL.

Deprecated

func LSGetApplicationForInfo(OSType, OSType, CFString!, LSRolesMask, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;FSRef>!, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;Unmanaged&lt;CFURL>?>!) -> OSStatus

Locates the preferred app for opening items with a specified file type, creator signature, filename extension, or any combination of these characteristics.

Deprecated

func LSCopyApplicationForMIMEType(CFString!, LSRolesMask, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;Unmanaged&lt;CFURL>?>!) -> OSStatus

Locates the preferred app for opening items with a specified MIME type.

Deprecated

func LSCanRefAcceptItem(UnsafePointer&lt;FSRef>!, UnsafePointer&lt;FSRef>!, LSRolesMask, LSAcceptanceFlags, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;DarwinBoolean>!) -> OSStatus

Tests whether an app can accept (open) an item with a file-system reference.

Deprecated

func LSFindApplicationForInfo(OSType, CFString!, CFString!, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;FSRef>!, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;Unmanaged&lt;CFURL>?>!) -> OSStatus

Locates an app with a specified creator signature, bundle ID, filename, or any combination of these characteristics.

Deprecated

func LSOpenApplication(UnsafePointer&lt;LSApplicationParameters>!, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;ProcessSerialNumber>!) -> OSStatus

Launches the specified app.

Deprecated

func LSOpenURLsWithRole(CFArray!, LSRolesMask, UnsafePointer&lt;AEKeyDesc>!, UnsafePointer&lt;LSApplicationParameters>!, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;ProcessSerialNumber>!, CFIndex) -> OSStatus

Opens one or more URLs with the specified roles.

Deprecated

func LSOpenFSRef(UnsafePointer&lt;FSRef>!, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;FSRef>!) -> OSStatus

Opens an item with a file-system reference in the default manner in its preferred app.

Deprecated

func LSOpenFromRefSpec(UnsafePointer&lt;LSLaunchFSRefSpec>!, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;FSRef>!) -> OSStatus

Opens one or more items with a file-system reference in either their preferred apps or a designated app.

Deprecated

func LSCopyItemInfoForRef(UnsafePointer&lt;FSRef>!, LSRequestedInfo, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;LSItemInfoRecord>!) -> OSStatus

Obtains requested information about an item with a file-system reference.

Deprecated

func LSCopyItemInfoForURL(CFURL!, LSRequestedInfo, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;LSItemInfoRecord>!) -> OSStatus

Obtains requested information about an item with a URL.

Deprecated

func LSCopyDisplayNameForRef(UnsafePointer&lt;FSRef>!, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;Unmanaged&lt;CFString>?>!) -> OSStatus

Obtains the display name for an item with a file-system reference.

Deprecated

func LSCopyDisplayNameForURL(CFURL!, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;Unmanaged&lt;CFString>?>!) -> OSStatus

Obtains the display name for an item with a URL.

Deprecated

func LSCopyKindStringForRef(UnsafePointer&lt;FSRef>!, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;Unmanaged&lt;CFString>?>!) -> OSStatus

Obtains the kind string for an item with a file-system reference.

Deprecated

func LSCopyKindStringForURL(CFURL!, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;Unmanaged&lt;CFString>?>!) -> OSStatus

Obtains the kind string for an item with a URL.

Deprecated

func LSCopyKindStringForTypeInfo(OSType, OSType, CFString!, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;Unmanaged&lt;CFString>?>!) -> OSStatus

Obtains a kind string for items with a specified file type, creator signature, filename extension, or any combination of these characteristics.

Deprecated

func LSCopyKindStringForMIMEType(CFString!, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;Unmanaged&lt;CFString>?>!) -> OSStatus

Obtains the kind string for a specified MIME type.

Deprecated

func LSCopyItemAttribute(UnsafePointer&lt;FSRef>!, LSRolesMask, CFString!, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;Unmanaged&lt;CFTypeRef>?>!) -> OSStatus

Obtains the value of an item’s attribute.

Deprecated

func LSCopyItemAttributes(UnsafePointer&lt;FSRef>!, LSRolesMask, CFArray!, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;Unmanaged&lt;CFDictionary>?>!) -> OSStatus

Obtains multiple item attribute values as a dictionary.

Deprecated

func LSGetExtensionInfo(Int, UnsafePointer&lt;UniChar>!, UnsafeMutablePointer&lt;Int>!) -> OSStatus

Obtains the starting index of the extension within a filename.

Deprecated

func LSSetExtensionHiddenForRef(UnsafePointer&lt;FSRef>!, Bool) -> OSStatus

Specifies whether to show or hide the filename extension for an item with a file-system reference.

Deprecated

func LSSetExtensionHiddenForURL(CFURL!, Bool) -> OSStatus

Specifies whether to show or hide the filename extension for an item with a URL.

Deprecated

func LSRegisterFSRef(UnsafePointer&lt;FSRef>!, Bool) -> OSStatus

Registers an app with a file-system reference in the Launch Services database.

Deprecated

