

- Device Management
-  GetVppLicensesResponse 

Object

# GetVppLicensesResponse

The response with the licenses.

Device Assignment ServicesVPP License Management

``` source
object GetVppLicensesResponse
```

## Properties

`batchCount`

`int32`

The number of licenses returned in the current batch.

See Batched Responses for more information.

`batchToken`

`string`

Use this batchToken value in subsequent requests to get the next batch. A `batchToken` value is generated by the server and can be several kilobytes in size.For an initial request that doesn’t include `batchToken`, a `batchToken` value is returned if the number of results exceeds a server-controlled limit. Subsequent requests must include `batchToken`. As long as additional batches remain, the server returns a new `batchToken` value in its response.

See Batched Responses for more information.

`clientContext`

`string`

The value currently associated with the provided sToken. This field is only included in the response when a value has been set via the Client Configuration endpoint.

See Protecting Your VPP Account for more information.

`errorMessage`

`string`

The human-readable explanation of the error.

`errorNumber`

`int32`

The numeric code of the error.

`expirationMillis`

`int64`

The UNIX epoch timestamp, in milliseconds, when the account’s sToken or password expires (whichever is earlier).

`licenses`

`[`VppLicense`]`

List of licenses managed by the provided sToken.

`location`

VppLocation

The location associated with the provided sToken. This field is only returned when a location token is used with an Apple School Manager account.

`sinceModifiedToken`

`string`

A token that marks a place in time. After all licenses have been returned for a request, the server includes a `sinceModifiedToken` value in the response. Use it in subsequent requests to get licenses that have been modified since the token was generated.

See About SinceModifiedToken for more information.

`status`

`int32`

The status code for the response. Possible values are:

`0` = Success.

`-1` = Failure.

`totalBatchCount`

`int32`

The total number of round trips needed to get the complete result set.

See Batched Responses for more information.

`totalCount`

`int32`

An estimate of the total number of licenses that will be returned. This value is returned only for requests that don’t include `batchToken` and only for the request that started the batch process. The actual number of licenses returned can be different by the time the client has finished retrieving all licenses.

`uId`

`string`

The unique library identifier. When querying records using multiple tokens that may share libraries, use the `uId` field to filter duplicates. In this way, you can avoid double-counting records when duplicate tokens are uploaded by different content managers.

## See Also

### Request and Response

object GetVppLicensesRequest

The request for licenses.

