

- Device Management
-  GetVppUsersResponse 

Object

# GetVppUsersResponse

The response from the users’ details service.

Device Assignment ServicesVPP License Management

``` source
object GetVppUsersResponse
```

## Properties

`batchCount`

`int32`

The number of users returned in the current batch.

See Batched Responses for more information.

`batchToken`

`string`

Use this `batchToken` value in subsequent requests to get the next batch. A `batchToken` value is generated by the server and can be several kilobytes in size.

For an initial request that doesn’t include `batchToken` or `sinceModifiedToken`, a `batchToken` value is returned if the number of results exceeds a server-controlled limit. Subsequent requests must include `batchToken`. As long as additional batches remain, the server returns a new `batchToken` value in its response.

See Batched Responses for more information.

`clientContext`

`string`

The value currently associated with the provided `sToken`. This field is only included in the response when a value has been set via the Client Configuration endpoint.

See Protecting Your VPP Account for more information.

`errorMessage`

`string`

The human-readable explanation of the error.

`errorNumber`

`int32`

The numeric code of the error.

`expirationMillis`

`int64`

The UNIX epoch timestamp, in milliseconds, when the account’s sToken or password expires (whichever is earlier).

`location`

VppLocation

The location associated with the provided `sToken`. This field is only returned when a location token is used with an Apple School Manager account.

`sinceModifiedToken`

`string`

A token that marks a place in time. After all users have been returned for a request, the server includes a `sinceModifiedToken` value in the response. Use it in subsequent requests to get users modified since the token was generated.

See About SinceModifiedToken for more information.

`status`

`int32`

The status code for the response. Possible values are:

- `0` = Success.

- `-1` = Failure.

`totalBatchCount`

`string`

The total number of round trips needed to get the complete result set.

See Batched Responses for more information.

`totalCount`

`int32`

An estimate of the total number of users that will be returned. This value is returned for requests that don’t include `batchToken` and for the request that started the batch process (the listing request issued with no tokens). The actual number of users returned can be different by the time the client has finished retrieving all records.

`uId`

`string`

The unique library identifier. When querying records using multiple tokens that may share libraries, use the `uId` field to filter duplicates. In this way, you can avoid double counting records when duplicate tokens are uploaded by different content managers.

`users`

`[`VppUser`]`

A list of users managed by the provided `sToken`.

## See Also

### Request and Response

object GetVppUsersRequest

The request for the users’ details service.

