

- Device Management
-  GetVppUsersRequest 

Object

# GetVppUsersRequest

The request for the users’ details service.

Device Assignment ServicesVPP License Management

``` source
object GetVppUsersRequest
```

## Properties

`batchToken`

`string`

A token that signifies which batch is being returned. A `batchToken` value is generated by the server and can be several kilobytes in size.

For an initial request that doesn’t include `batchToken` or `sinceModifiedToken`, a `batchToken` value is returned if the number of results exceeds a server-controlled limit. Subsequent requests must include batchToken. As long as additional batches remain, the server returns a new `batchToken` value in its response.

See Batched Responses for more information.

`includeRetired`

`int32`

If `true`, returns retired users in the results.

`includeRetiredOnly`

`boolean`

If `true`, returns only retired users in the results.

`overrideIndex`

`int32`

A value from 1 to the `totalBatchCount` value that specifies the batch of results to return. For requests with a value equal to the `totalBatchCount` value, the `sinceModifiedToken` value is returned.

`sinceModifiedToken`

`string`

A token that marks a place in time. After all records have been returned for a request, the server includes a `sinceModifiedToken` value in the response. Use it in subsequent requests to get licenses that have been modified since the token was generated.

See About SinceModifiedToken for more information.

`sToken`

`string`

 (Required) 

The authentication token. For more information, see Authentication.

## Discussion

Note

The `batchToken` encodes the original value of `includeRetired`; therefore, if a `batchToken` is present on the request, the `includeRetired` field (if passed) is ignored.

## See Also

### Request and Response

object GetVppUsersResponse

The response from the users’ details service.

