

- Core HID
- HIDVirtualDeviceDelegate
-  hidVirtualDevice(\_:receivedGetReportRequestOfType:id:maxSize:) 

Instance Method

# hidVirtualDevice(\_:receivedGetReportRequestOfType:id:maxSize:)

A notification that a get report request has been received from the system.

macOS 15.0+

``` source
func hidVirtualDevice(
    _ device: HIDVirtualDevice,
    receivedGetReportRequestOfType type: HIDReportType,
    id: HIDReportID?,
    maxSize: Int
) async throws -> Data
```

**Required**

## Parameters 

`device`  

The device that received the notification.

`type`  

The HIDReportType of the requested report.

`id`  

The ID of the requested report. This may not be populated if the descriptor contains only one report.

`maxSize`  

The maximum size of data that can be transmitted back to the client. The data returned by this function must not exceed this size.

## Return Value

The bytes to return in response to the requested report. Determining the correct values can be aided by referencing the device’s report descriptor.

## Discussion

Get report requests are generated by other clients on the system, which includes system processes or other user apps. The response to a get report request is generally determined by the device’s report descriptor. However, a device can respond in whatever way it chooses.

For more details, see Human Interface Devices (HID) Specifications and Tools.

Throws

This should throw HIDDeviceError if there is an issue with the request, throwing another type of error isn’t supported.

## See Also

### Receive notifications for a device

func hidVirtualDevice(HIDVirtualDevice, receivedSetReportRequestOfType: HIDReportType, id: HIDReportID?, data: Data) async throws

A notification that a set report request has been received from the system.

**Required**

