

- Core HID
- HIDVirtualDeviceDelegate
-  hidVirtualDevice(\_:receivedSetReportRequestOfType:id:data:) 

Instance Method

# hidVirtualDevice(\_:receivedSetReportRequestOfType:id:data:)

A notification that a set report request has been received from the system.

macOS 15.0+

``` source
func hidVirtualDevice(
    _ device: HIDVirtualDevice,
    receivedSetReportRequestOfType type: HIDReportType,
    id: HIDReportID?,
    data: Data
) async throws
```

**Required**

## Parameters 

`device`  

The device that received the notification.

`type`  

The HIDReportType of the report.

`id`  

The ID of the received report. This may not be populated if the descriptor contains only one report.

`data`  

The data received in the request. The contents are determined by the client, and may not adhere to the device’s report descriptor.

## Discussion

Set report requests are generated by other clients on the system, which includes system processes or other user apps. The reaction to a set report request is generally determined by the device’s report descriptor. However, a device can react in whatever way it chooses.

For more details, see Human Interface Devices (HID) Specifications and Tools.

Throws

This should throw HIDDeviceError if there is an issue with the request, throwing another type of error isn’t supported.

## See Also

### Receive notifications for a device

func hidVirtualDevice(HIDVirtualDevice, receivedGetReportRequestOfType: HIDReportType, id: HIDReportID?, maxSize: Int) async throws -> Data

A notification that a get report request has been received from the system.

**Required**

