

- WidgetKit
-  Preview(\_:as:using:widget:timelineProvider:) 

Macro

# Preview(\_:as:using:widget:timelineProvider:)

Preview a widget with an intent configuration, using the specified timeline provider.

iOS 17.0+iPadOS 17.0+Mac Catalyst 17.0+macOS 14.0+watchOS 10.0+

``` source
@freestanding(declaration)
macro Preview(
    _ name: String? = nil,
    as family: WidgetFamily,
    using intent: Provider.Intent,
    widget: @escaping () -> Widget,
    timelineProvider: @escaping () -> Provider
) where Widget : Widget, Provider : IntentTimelineProvider
```

## Parameters 

`name`  

An optional display name for the preview, which will appear in the canvas.

`family`  

The widget family to display.

`intent`  

The intent with which to configure the widget.

`widget`  

A closure producing the widget to be previewed.

`timelineProvider`  

A closure producing the timeline provider that will generate the preview’s timeline.

## Mentioned in 

Previewing widgets and Live Activities in Xcode

## Overview

The preview will allow you to step through the timeline generated by the provider. It might be helpful to instantiate your timeline provider with sample data.

Note

The timeline provider must be of the type expected by the widget. (This will be enforced at run-time.)

## See Also

### Providing a widget preview

macro Preview&lt;Widget, Provider>(String?, as: WidgetFamily, widget: () -> Widget, timelineProvider: () -> Provider)

Preview a widget with a static configuration, using the specified timeline provider.

macro Preview&lt;Widget, Provider>(String?, as: WidgetFamily, using: Provider.Intent, widget: () -> Widget, timelineProvider: () -> Provider)

Preview a widget with an app intent configuration, using the specified timeline provider.

macro Preview&lt;Widget>(String?, as: WidgetFamily, widget: () -> Widget, timeline: () async -> [any TimelineEntry])

Preview a timeline-style widget.

