

- Force Feedback
-  FFPERIODIC 

Structure

# FFPERIODIC

A structure containing type-specific information for certain effects.

Mac Catalyst 13.0+macOS 10.2+

``` source
struct FFPERIODIC
```

## Overview

Used with the SINE, SQUARE, TRIANGLE, SAWTOOTHUP, and SAWTOOTHDOWN effects.

A pointer to a single FFPERIODIC structure for an effect is passed in the lpvTypeSpecificParams member of the FFEFFECT structure. A Force Feedback plugIn cannot provide support for all values in the **dwPhase** member. In this case, the value is rounded off to the nearest supported value.

## Topics

### Initializers

init()

init(dwMagnitude: DWORD, lOffset: LONG, dwPhase: DWORD, dwPeriod: DWORD)

### Instance Properties

var dwMagnitude: DWORD

Magnitude of the effect, in the range from 0 through 10,000. If an envelope is applied to this effect, the value represents the magnitude of the sustain. If no envelope is applied, the value represents the amplitude of the entire effect.

var dwPeriod: DWORD

Period of the effect, in microseconds.

var dwPhase: DWORD

Position in the cycle of the periodic effect at which playback begins, in the range from 0 through 35,999.

var lOffset: LONG

Offset of the effect. The range of forces generated by the effect is **lOffset** minus **dwMagnitude** to **lOffset** plus **dwMagnitude**. The value of the **lOffset** member is also the baseline for any envelope that is applied to the effect.

## Relationships

### Conforms To

- BitwiseCopyable
- Sendable

## See Also

### Data Types

struct FFCAPABILITIES

Used by the FFDeviceGetForceFeedbackCapabilities method to retrieve device force-feedback capabilities.

struct FFCONDITION

A structure containing type-specific information for certain effects.

struct FFCONSTANTFORCE

Contains type-specific information for the CONSTANTFORCE effect.

struct FFCUSTOMFORCE

Contains type-specific information for the CUSTOMFORCE effect.

struct FFEFFECT

UsUsed by the FFDeviceCreateEffect method to initialize a new effect object. It is also used by the FFEffectSetParameters and FFEffectGetParameters functions.

struct FFEFFESCAPE

The FFEFFESCAPE structure passes hardware-specific data directly to the Force Feedback plugIn.

struct FFENVELOPE

Used by the FFEFFECT structure to specify the optional envelope parameters for an effect.

struct FFRAMPFORCE

Contains type-specific information for the RAMPFORCE effect.

