

- App Store Receipts
- responseBody
-  responseBody.Receipt Deprecated

Object

# responseBody.Receipt

The decoded version of the encoded receipt data that you send with the request to the App Store.

App Store Receipts 1.0–1.7Deprecated

## Properties

`adam_id`

`number`

Deprecated 

See `app_item_id`.

`app_item_id`

`number`

Deprecated 

Generated by App Store Connect and used by the App Store to uniquely identify the app purchased. Apps are assigned this identifier only in production. Treat this value as a 64-bit long integer.

`application_version`

`string`

Deprecated 

The app’s version number. The app's version number corresponds to the value of `CFBundleVersion` (in iOS) or `CFBundleShortVersionString` (in macOS) in the `Info.plist`. In production, this value is the current version of the app on the device based on the `receipt_creation_date_ms`. In the sandbox, the value is always `"1.0"`.

`bundle_id`

`string`

Deprecated 

The bundle identifier for the app to which the receipt belongs. You provide this string on App Store Connect. This corresponds to the value of `CFBundleIdentifier` in the `Info.plist` file of the app.

`download_id`

`long`

Deprecated 

A unique identifier for the app download transaction.

`expiration_date`

`string`

Deprecated 

The time the receipt expires for apps purchased through the Volume Purchase Program, in a date-time format similar to the ISO 8601.

`expiration_date_ms`

`string`

Deprecated 

The time the receipt expires for apps purchased through the Volume Purchase Program, in UNIX epoch time format, in milliseconds. If this key is not present for apps purchased through the Volume Purchase Program, the receipt does not expire. Use this time format for processing dates.

`expiration_date_pst`

`string`

Deprecated 

The time the receipt expires for apps purchased through the Volume Purchase Program, in the Pacific Time zone.

`in_app`

`[`responseBody.Receipt.In_app`]`

Deprecated 

An array that contains the in-app purchase receipt fields for all in-app purchase transactions.

`original_application_version`

`string`

Deprecated 

The version of the app that the user originally purchased. This value does not change, and corresponds to the value of `CFBundleVersion` (in iOS) or `CFBundleShortVersion`String (in macOS) in the `Info.plist` file of the original purchase. In the sandbox environment, the value is always `"1.0"`.

`original_purchase_date`

`string`

Deprecated 

The time of the original app purchase, in a date-time format similar to ISO 8601.

`original_purchase_date_ms`

`string`

Deprecated 

The time of the original app purchase, in UNIX epoch time format, in milliseconds. Use this time format for processing dates.

`original_purchase_date_pst`

`string`

Deprecated 

The time of the original app purchase, in the Pacific Time zone.

`preorder_date`

`string`

Deprecated 

The time the user ordered the app available for pre-order, in a date-time format similar to ISO 8601.

`preorder_date_ms`

`string`

Deprecated 

The time the user ordered the app available for pre-order, in UNIX epoch time format, in milliseconds. This field is only present if the user pre-orders the app. Use this time format for processing dates.

`preorder_date_pst`

`string`

Deprecated 

The time the user ordered the app available for pre-order, in the Pacific Time zone.

`receipt_creation_date`

`string`

Deprecated 

The time the App Store generated the receipt, in a date-time format similar to ISO 8601.

`receipt_creation_date_ms`

`string`

Deprecated 

The time the App Store generated the receipt, in UNIX epoch time format, in milliseconds. Use this time format for processing dates. This value does not change.

`receipt_creation_date_pst`

`string`

Deprecated 

The time the App Store generated the receipt, in the Pacific Time zone.

`receipt_type`

`string`

Deprecated 

The type of receipt generated. The value corresponds to the environment in which the app or VPP purchase was made.

Possible Values: `Production, ProductionVPP, ProductionSandbox, ProductionVPPSandbox`

`request_date`

`string`

Deprecated 

The time the request to the `verifyReceipt` endpoint was processed and the response was generated, in a date-time format similar to ISO 8601.

`request_date_ms`

`string`

Deprecated 

The time the request to the `verifyReceipt` endpoint was processed and the response was generated, in UNIX epoch time format, in milliseconds. Use this time format for processing dates.

`request_date_pst`

`string`

Deprecated 

The time the request to the `verifyReceipt` endpoint was processed and the response was generated, in the Pacific Time zone.

`version_external_identifier`

`integer`

Deprecated 

An arbitrary number that identifies a revision of your app. In the sandbox, this key's value is `“0”`.

## Topics

### Objects

object responseBody.Receipt.In_app

An array that contains the in-app purchase receipt fields for all in-app purchase transactions.

