

- DriverKit
-  OSAction 

Class

# OSAction

An object that executes your driver’s custom behavior.

DriverKitiOSiPadOSmacOS

``` source
class OSAction;
```

## Mentioned in 

Creating a Driver Using the DriverKit SDK

## Overview

An OSAction object encapsulates a custom method of your driver, and the object that contains that method. When configuring your driver, you use action objects in places where the system must call your custom code asynchronously. For example, a timer dispatch source notifies its action object when the specified time elapses. Because actions execute asynchronously, store any state information your action requires in the object you specify at configuration time.

Create action objects using the method generated by the TYPE macro. When you append that macro to a method declaration in your `.iig` file, the compiler automatically generates a method with the name `CreateAction`. For example, if the name of your custom method is `HandleTimer`, the name of the system-generated method is `CreateActionHandleTimer`. This generated method creates an action object already configured to call your custom method.

## Topics

### Configuring the Action

free

Performs any final cleanup for the action object.

SetAbortedHandler

Install a handler for the system to call when no other processes reference the action object.

### Getting State Information

GetReference

Returns a pointer to any additional memory allocated by the action object on your behalf.

### Ending the Action Early

Cancel

Cancels the execution of the action’s callbacks.

Aborted

Calls the abort handler of the action object.

OSActionAbortedHandler

The block to call before aborting an action object.

OSActionCancelHandler

The block to call after the successful cancellation of the action.

### Instance Methods

EndWait

Wait

WillWait

## Relationships

### Inherits From

- OSObject

## See Also

### Event management

IODispatchQueue

An object that manages the serial execution of blocks.

IOInterruptDispatchSource

A dispatch source that reports hardware-related interrupt events to your driver.

IOTimerDispatchSource

A dispatch source that notifies your driver at a specific time.

IODataQueueDispatchSource

A dispatch source that manages a shared-memory data queue.

IODispatchSource

The common base class for dispatch sources.

