

- DriverKit
-  IOInterruptDispatchSource 

Class

# IOInterruptDispatchSource

A dispatch source that reports hardware-related interrupt events to your driver.

DriverKitiOSiPadOSmacOS

``` source
class IOInterruptDispatchSource;
```

## Overview

An IOInterruptDispatchSource object executes an associated action in response to hardware-related interrupts. If your driver handles hardware interrupts, configure this dispatch source and use your action object to provide an appropriat response.

Interrupt-related actions execute at the normal thread level. The system records the time at which the interrupt fired using the mach_absolute_time function, and passes that time value to your action’s callback method. For PCI devices, DriverKit supports only MSI interrupt sources.

## Topics

### Configuring the Interrupt Source

Create

Create a dispatch source that reports hardware-related interrupts generated by the specified service provider.

init

Handles the basic initialization of the dispatch source.

free

Performs any final cleanup for the dispatch source.

SetHandler

Set the handler block to run when the interrupt fires.

### Starting and Stopping the Interrupt Source

SetEnableWithCompletion

Enables or disables the delivery of interrupts.

Cancel

Cancels all callbacks from the event source.

IODispatchSourceCancelHandler

A block to execute when a canceled dispatch source stops executing tasks.

### Declaring Actions

InterruptOccurred

Executes custom code when an interrupt occurs.

CheckForWork

Checks for events to handle.

IOInterruptDispatchSourcePayload

A private structure for an interrupt dispatch source.

### Instance Methods

GetLastInterrupt

### Type Methods

GetInterruptType

## Relationships

### Inherits From

- IODispatchSource

## See Also

### Event management

IODispatchQueue

An object that manages the serial execution of blocks.

IOTimerDispatchSource

A dispatch source that notifies your driver at a specific time.

IODataQueueDispatchSource

A dispatch source that manages a shared-memory data queue.

IODispatchSource

The common base class for dispatch sources.

OSAction

An object that executes your driver’s custom behavior.

